A day at the beach is a summer ritual that will hopefully bring lots of sunshine, sandcastles and crashing waves at your feet. 
But the elements that bring beauty to the beach also make it one of the most challenging environments when it comes to eating: think melting yogurt, sand-coated sandwiches and drooping chocolate chip cookies.
Staying nourished and hydrated is key at the beach, as lots of sun and swim can drain you of energy. What you need is a list of beach-friendly foods to pack alongside your towels and sunscreen. Just don't forget to bring sanitizing hand wipes and a cooler with ice packs (or frozen water bottles), as perishable foods spoil quickly in the heat.
"Perishable foods should not be out for more than one hour when it's hot out, and that includes the time traveling to the beach if the food is unrefrigerated in your vehicle's trunk," said Isabel Maples, a registered dietitian nutritionist and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
If it's possible, consider taking along two coolers. "Pack one cooler for drinks and another one for food, to keep both cooler contents colder," Maples said. And keep the cooler cool by placing it in the shade or covering it with a beach blanket or towel.
Watermelon and feta salad
"Not only is watermelon incredibly refreshing, it packs a powerful electrolyte punch, which helps replace what you sweat out," said Marge Perry, a food and nutrition writer and author of the upcoming cookbook "Hero Dinners: Complete One-Pan Meals That Save the Day."
Adding chunks of feta cheese can help replace lost sodium while boosting protein and flavor, according to Perry. To make your watermelon-feta salad beach-friendly, pack it in reusable plastic containers with toothpicks secured in the top few pieces.
Fruit or veggie kebabs
"Kebabs are easy to eat, even with sandy little -- or big -- hands," Perry said. Make easy-to-eat, nutritious and satisfying kebabs by threading a few pieces of mild cheese, such as mozzarella, between your favorite fruits or veggies, she explained.
Watermelon, grapes, pineapple, cantaloupe, bell peppers, cherry tomatoes, fennel or cucumber work well. To pack kebabs, Perry recommends sliding the skewers into a plastic zip-top bag, with the handle end facing up, for an easy grab-and-go snack; then roll the closed bag into a tube, wrap paper towels or napkins around the tube, and secure it with a rubber band to keep the napkins handy.
Hummus with veggies
If you're at the beach for hours at a time, you'll want substantial snacks. "Loaded with protein, hummus can satisfy," Maples said. Pair hummus with water-rich veggies like baby carrots, celery sticks or sugar snap peas. When you're done snacking, don't forget to store leftover hummus in a cooler. "You might also try individual-sized hummus containers so that a sandstorm doesn't ruin a big container of hummus," Maples added.
Whole-grain cracker sandwiches
"I love Triscuits or any hearty whole-grain cracker sandwiched with almond butter and fresh raspberries, or with banana and cacao nibs," said Abby Langer, a registered dietitian and owner of Abby Langer Nutrition in Toronto.
The crackers offer fiber, so they satisfy a grumbling stomach easily. They're also salty, "which tastes good after I've been sweating for a while on one of my epic beach walks that lasts for hours," Langer said.
Nutty trail mix
A satisfying trail mix provides heart-healthy fats and protein that can help prevent hunger pangs at the beach. "The key is to have a mix of textures and nutrients," Perry said.
Her favorite combo includes roasted almonds and pepitas for protein-packed crunch; crisp, salty broken pretzels; sweet roasted coconut chips; sweet and nutrient-dense dried fruit, like cranberries, raisins or dried cherries; and cereal or popcorn to add bulk with fewer calories.
Pack in portion-controlled plastic bags to avoid overindulging.
Grain-based salad
"For a beach-friendly meal, I love making grain-based salads with farro or quinoa, a variety of roasted or raw seasonal vegetables, chopped nuts, fresh herbs and a light vinaigrette dressing," said Jessica Levinson, culinary nutrition expert and author of the forthcoming "52-Week Meal Planner." Pack the salads in resealable containers and store in cooler bags. Since you only need a fork, "there's no need to worry about sandy hands touching the food."
Oranges
limit the damage induced by ultraviolet radiation from the sun.
Peanut butter and jelly sandwich
"A peanut butter and jelly sandwich can be a great choice when you don't want to pack a cooler of food, since it doesn't need to be refrigerated," Maples said.
Choose whole-wheat bread for extra fiber and nutrients. If you're out of bread, Maples recommends taking along whole-grain crackers to dip into individual containers of peanut butter.
Beverages
Lastly, don't forget to pack beverages. Besides water, try 100% juices or flavored waters. These drinks may feel more indulgent, so you may be more likely drink enough to stay hydrated, according to Maples.
It's also wise to limit your alcohol intake. "Alcohol can dehydrate you, and in the hot sun, that can happen even faster," Langer said. If an alcohol-free beach trip is not realistic, "be sure to drink water between beers to stay hydrated," Maples said.
******
It was early afternoon on Thursday that I was defending Melania Trump on my HLN show, "Across America." You know, post-<a href="https://www.cnn.com/2018/06/20/politics/peter-fonda-baron-trump-secret-service/index.html">Peter Fonda tweet</a>, pre-jacket. 
rage-tweeted, "We should rip Barron Trump from his mother's arms and put him in a cage with pedophiles and see if mother will will stand up against the giant a--hole she is married to."
persuaded her husband to end (sort of) the separation of families at the border. How dare Peter Fonda?
And then Melania Trump showed up in McAllen, Texas, in her signature safari-type shirt and white tennis shoes to visit the children ripped from their parents' arms.
Nomiki Konst, a guest on my show and a Bernie Sanders surrogate, speculated on the reason for Trump's trip, saying, "Maybe she's there because Peter Fonda called attention to this?"
John Phillips, a conservative radio talker, rolled his eyes. "I think we've kind of missed the point here. The one that got slurred in this tweet was Barron Trump."
$51,500 Dolce and Gabbana jacket last year -- but it was way weirder to read the words on the back of that Zara fashion find: "I really don't care. Do u?"
insisted the jacket's message had nothing to do with the traumatized children detained in Texas. "There was no hidden message."
tweeted that his wife's jacket "refers to the Fake News Media."
Melania Trump's spokeswoman also urged the media not to "focus on her wardrobe."
Done and done, because instead of attention being paid to his wife's jacket, it should be on President Trump's actions.
extend the time immigrant children can remain detained with their parents beyond the current legal limit of 20 days.
insisting "we never really intended" to separate families, even though Sessions ostensibly used family separations to deter people from crossing into the United States.
That said, I am still incensed at Peter Fonda's awful tweet. It was outrageous and wrong.
As for Melania Trump, she is proving to be the next best counterpuncher in the White House. Instead of admitting wearing such a jacket was a silly mistake, she doubled down, wearing the jacket again as she deplaned at Andrews Air Force Base.
Seriously, Mrs. Trump, stop confusing us. You were initially right -- it's about the children. Not the fake news or your husband, but the children. Why not counterpunch for them and not your choice of jackets?
******
A measles outbreak has hit an isolated Amazon tribe, the Yanomami, on the border of Venezuela and Brazil, according to <a href="https://www.survivalinternational.org/" target="_blank">Survival International</a>, a nongovernmental organization that works to protect tribal peoples. 
The outbreak has put 23 tribe members in the hospital and is threatening hundreds more.
"Any remote indigenous people with little contact with mainstream society have low resistance to diseases that are introduced from outsiders," said Sarah Shenker, a senior researcher at Survival International.
"That's why this epidemic of measles that<strong> </strong>has broken out on the Venezuela-Brazil border in recent months is particularly worrying for the Yanomami and could be catastrophic. It could wipe out whole communities."
The nongovernmental organization Watinaba, which defends the rights of various Amazon indigenous groups in Venezuela, tweeted about the measles outbreak on Thursday, showing various Yanomami who have contracted measles and asking for vaccinations for the tribespeople.
World Health Organization.
995 reported cases in Brazil, according to WHO.
Brazilian Ministry of Health, Venezuelans crossing the border have brought measles into Brazil. All 995 reported measles cases were in the border states of Amazonas and Roraima.
2,150 confirmed cases of measles in Venezuela.
But the the arrival of illegal gold miners -- probably from Venezuela -- in Yanomami territory coincided with tribal members contracting the disease, said Shenker, who believes they are to blame.
Brazilian Ministry of Health.
But the Yanomami remain at particular risk given their low immunity to diseases and the difficulty in reaching those who may need the vaccine, Shenker said.
the largest semi-isolated tribe in South America, whose territory spans the jungles and mountains of northern Brazil and southern Venezuela. During the 1980s, over 40,000 gold miners entered their territory, shooting tribespeople, destroying their villages and exposing them to disease, according to Survival International. The Yanomami lost 20% of their population during these incursions.
Today, it's estimated that 35,000 Yanomami remain.
Although a large portion of today's Yanomami population has had at least some contact with outsiders, there are still groupings and villages that have never been exposed. And for this particular subpopulation, even contact with medical experts is dangerous, putting them at risk of contracting outside illnesses, Shenker said.
Watinaba.
the deaths of almost 90,000 people -- predominantly children under the age of 5.
US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Vaccinating the Yanomami against measles is an important first step in protecting those tribal people who have had contact with outsiders. However, more long-term solutions are necessary to protect the Yanomami from diseases like measles -- and people who bring those diseases -- which threaten their existence, according to Shenker.
"We need to protect their land. That is the only feasible long-term solution to prevent such potentially disastrous epidemics from reaching the Yanomami and other tribes is by protecting their land."
******
Snaking up a hillside along a steep jungle track, a convoy of trucks loaded with dozens of Thai rescue workers churns through mud on what's become a daily mission to find an alternative route out of the Tham Luang cave.
The group of nearly 50 military and government personnel is searching for entrances in the mountain, natural chimneys that could be used to access 12 boys and their coach, who have been trapped by flood waters inside the cave for almost two weeks.
The death of an experienced diver in the cave system Friday underscores the risk of attempting to move the boys, who are physically weak after days without food, through the flooded main entrance.
Searching for an entrance
The Thai soldiers and National Park Authority workers drive 20 kilometers (12 miles) from the cave's main entrance in Mae Sai to Doi Pha Nee, a mountain northwest of the main entrance of the Tham Luang cave system, near Thailand's border with Myanmar.
There, they search for holes worth exploring by a team of expert rock climbers who have flown in from south Thailand to help. Other Thai military officials, forestry guides, village elders and other local experts are on hand to offer guidance on navigation and terrain.
CNN accompanied the teams Thursday as they plowed through steep muddy lanes to reach area of lush grassland. There, they finalized the plan for the day over balls of sticky rice and pork and the popular Thai energy drink M-150.
Armed with GPS coordinates, team leaders pinpointed on a map where they thought a key chimney might be. The group then set off, trekking along dirt paths through farmland and scrambling up a hillside through jungle.
The teams split into smaller groups to survey the area for possible cave entrances. Before long, a whistle blew to summon the rest of the team. One of the trekkers had found a cave entrance in a rocky part of the hillside. The climbers came to check it out, but it was quickly dismissed.
Moving on to higher ground, another opening was soon discovered. This time it seemed more promising and the group geared up to investigate it properly.
Superfit and apparently fearless, the climbers squeezed themselves into the dark crevice and gradually disappeared one by one into the cave. For them, this is not just a hobby: they earn their living as some of Thailand's infamous bird's nest collectors.
This controversial practice involves collecting the nests of rare birds from cliff faces and caves to provide the ingredients for one of the world's most expensive dishes: bird's nest soup, a delicacy in China.
Dead end
The team of six of the climbers managed to descend 300 meters (980 ft) of rope. Their GPS calculations suggested that the boys were only another 300 meters away. But disappointed voices reached the surface.
"It's a dead end," one of the group said
The team trekked on to 800 meters (2,600 ft) above sea level in search of entrances higher up the mountain.
Hiking uphill in temperatures in excess of 30 degrees Celsius (86 Fahrenheit) with humidity at over 90% while carrying heavy equipment and ropes made for a grueling, sweat-soaked hunt.
In the midst of a farmed area of giant banana trees and coffee plants, the group came across another search team of soldiers and cavers.
"We came with the Thai military team to look for holes and caves and to see if they go deep enough," said Mario Wild, a 38-year-old Austrian caving instructor from Chiang Mai Rock Climbing Adventures. "So far, no success."
His colleague, 31-year old Add Kongsingh, said other people in the area were trying to help in similar ways.
"We have some experience with caving. We have been searching around these mountains, trying to find a potential hole that we think can connect," said Kongsingh.
Their team has been out every day this week. But Kongsingh is worried that time is running out fast for the boys trapped deep in the mountain, where the risk of rising water poses a potentially fatal threat.
"I think rain is coming in the next couple of days," he said.
******
After three years of one of the worst droughts in living memory, the rains have finally arrived in Cape Town, lifting spirits and leaving residents feeling as if a great weight has been lifted from our shoulders.
The rain has brought new life to our parched city on the southern tip of Africa. My garden, dead and lifeless just a few weeks ago, is blooming, and the lawn, which had been transformed into a brown dustbowl, is now green.
50% capacity in the next few days -- with three months of the traditional rain season still to come.
efforts by residents, businesses and farmers to drastically cut their water use.
lowest level ever.
monitoring weather reports that show a steady stream of cold fronts heading toward Cape Town, as they line up to drop their watery load on our city.
All over the Table Mountain Reserve -- the mountainous nature reserve that runs down the spine of urban Cape Town -- dried out rivers, streams and waterfalls are once again flowing, while the abundant floral richness of Cape Town and its hinterland is blooming in all its magnificent glory.
in flooding and ensuing chaos across the city and its hinterland over the past weekend.
compared to the 109 gallons people in California consumed during their 2016 drought. It also means that we are still taking short, sharp 90-second showers or millimeters deep baths, and harvesting the gray water, as well as that from washing machines and dish washing, to flush toilets.
Those who cannot afford to install rainwater and gray water harvesting systems are still arriving in droves to collect free water at Cape Town's many natural springs -- often queuing in pouring rain while they wait their turn.
also imposed from July 1 to make up for revenue the city has lost because of water saving measures.
a tradeoff to keep stringent restrictions in place and the cost of water high.
anger and confusion among some of the party's supporters over the way the Day Zero water crisis was handled, which could erode support for the party in next year's general election.
water crisis. Dozens of scientists, academics, inventors and assorted water warriors had gathered to share ideas and experiences.
infrastructural fabric of cities worldwide.
source of revenue. Jay Bhagwan, who heads up waste management at South Africa's Water Research Commission, told of several pilot programs underway to recycle human waste. This includes an invention that turns human waste into carbon and is creating "entre-poo-neurs" in Uganda where it is being piloted; a toilet that uses only two liters per flush; and a system being tested in Durban, which uses the larvae of black soldier flies to transform human waste into a substitute for palm oil.
And just like scientists are rethinking as water scarcity becomes a global reality, so, too, I've been forced to rethink my relationship to and dependency on water.
After what we have gone through, I cannot see people like me, who have learned to see water for the precious, finite resource it is, slipping back to our old lax ways.
killed by the crippling drought -- once spring arrives and the winter cold abates. Only then, with this symbolic event, will I believe that the drought that has had Cape Town by the throat might finally be over.
******
A crackdown against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people in Indonesia is leading to a rise in HIV infections and causing a public health crisis, according to a <a href="https://www.hrw.org/report/2018/07/01/scared-public-and-now-no-privacy/human-rights-and-public-health-impacts-indonesias" target="_blank">new report</a> from Human Rights Watch.
The report documents how attacks, raids and an attitude of open hostility towards LGBT groups by Indonesian authorities and Islamist militant groups has derailed public health efforts to prevent and curb HIV.
"LGBT people's access to condoms, to counseling and to HIV education is disappearing. It's becoming more and more difficult for HIV education groups to access these communities. The situation is alarming and rates of HIV infections are increasing in Indonesia," said Andreas Harsono, a researcher at Human Rights Watch and one of the authors of the report.
Beginning in 2016, Indonesian authorities -- including politicians and other governmental officials -- began publicly attacking LGBT groups, creating a "moral panic" which then spilled into the wider Indonesian society, according to the report, which was published on Sunday.
"It began with a moral panic: that homosexuality was contagious, that it might affect children, that it is more dangerous than nuclear war," said Harsono.
The Indonesian media also helped fuel the hysteria, according to Harsono, which then encouraged both the authorities as well as militant Islamist groups to raid and attack clubs, spas and public spaces that were previously safe for LGBT people. In 2017, Indonesian police arrested at least 300 LGBT individuals, 40 of whom were later charged and jailed because of their sexual orientation, according to Harsono.
Crackdowns are especially troublesome in the prevention of HIV, according to Helen Vice, director of the Global Health Academy at the University of Edinburgh, because they "will only push people who need HIV treatment behind or away from front line services, and for anyone with HIV it's particularly important that they can access services quickly."
The HIV epidemic has gotten worse in Indonesia recently, with almost 48,000 new infections each year, the report said.
Most HIV infections in Indonesia still occur among heterosexuals. But one-third of new HIV transmissions occur among men who have sex with men, the report states. Rates of HIV infection have increased five-fold for this group since 2007. The crackdown against LGBT groups has particularly affected organizations working with men who have sex with men, according to Harsono.
The discriminatory targeting of organizations offering condoms and HIV education has been particularly problematic for the prevention of HIV.
"It's necessary to have an inclusive approach to HIV prevention," said Vice. "Civil society needs a place at the policy table. Diversity is important. Equal rights is about inclusive access to treatment."
Organizations that previously saw 700 people a month for HIV counseling and education are now only seeing 250, Harsono said.
Part of this can be attributed to the disappearance of hotspots -- areas where health workers could easily find gay men -- caused by the crackdown. But the intimidation and "criminalization of HIV outreach workers" by militant groups and authorities has also reduced the capacity of organizations working in HIV prevention, according to Harsono.
"The suspicion of any neighbor that we are gay can put us in real danger," said Panuta, an HIV outreach worker in Jakarta who was interviewed by Human Rights Watch for the report. "Whenever a group of my friends gets together now, we're afraid of neighbors snooping and calling the religious groups or the police and saying we are having a sex party -- even if we are not."
And to further complicate matters, condoms are now used as evidence of purported crimes, such as prostitution, which hamstring HIV prevention initiatives, according to the report. Many organizations fearing police reprisal no longer store condoms, according to Harsono.
The report is based in part on 48 in-depth interviews conducted in 2017 with victims, witnesses, activists, and health workers. The interviews were in Java, Kalimantan and Sumatra
being LGBT in Indonesia was widely tolerated.
However, the recent political changes have undermined fundamental human rights and increased the risk of a public health crisis, according to the report.
"Groups cannot track or see who has HIV. Facilities [for prevention and treatment] are disappearing. We going back to the 1990s in terms of HIV prevention programs, back to square one," said Harsono.
******
All of Europe is currently on hold -- and holding its breath. Business as usual is at a standstill, even though the EU is mired in its deepest crisis since its founding and other urgent matters, like a trade war with the US, are begging for redress.  
Why?
Because the German state of Bavaria has a regional election scheduled for mid-October.
given to win and remain in office -- but this time around in need of a junior coalition partner, perhaps the Greens or the Liberals, to constitute a majority.
10% of the Bavarian vote and the CSU dropped by 10%, capturing 39% of the vote.
along the lines favored by French President Emmanuel Macron.
16% nationally, all-time highs.
opportunity to effectively intervene in German politics on behalf of the far right, another step toward upending the postwar transatlantic alliance, until now the bedrock of Atlantic security since 1945.
Now, this does matter as it is a highly precarious, wholly unprecedented state of affairs, which could well unseat German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who looks weaker than ever before. That would leave Macron the lone heavyweight standing for liberal values in Europe.
Horst Seehofer, a lumbering, straight-faced bear of a man, who is Merkel's interior minister, as well as head of the CSU.
CSU is not for Germany taking zero asylum seekers, but a limited number.)
In fact, Germany's intake of asylum seekers has plummeted since 2015, when nearly a million refugees, most fleeing Syria's war, arrived in an unprepared Germany. This year, less than 50,000 (as of April) have applied for political asylum, the reduced number a result of Merkel's imposition of ever stricter policies and other contingencies.
scant help from Germany or any other EU countries.
The dust-up in Germany thus is symbolic, although there's nothing figurative about the CSU's unswerving onslaught against Merkel since 2015. Seehofer's most recent bugbear is Germany's acceptance of refugees at its border who either don't have papers of any kind or who have already applied for political asylum in another country. Again, the numbers of such persons coming to Germany is really quite small, and Germany is, as every EU state is, required by international law to accept people fleeing political persecution.
Merkel and the rest of the German government insist on an all-EU solution to refugees and immigration -- as they have for years. Seehofer, Germany's interior minister, has audaciously tried to pressure Merkel, saying either she and the other EU nations devise a solution or he closes Bavaria's borders.
mini-summit in Brussels this weekend to throw Merkel a lifeline. The problem, however, is that most EU countries object to a proportional distribution of asylum applicants, which is Merkel's wish -- and rightly so. The numbers of refugees per country would be tiny if every EU country would take their share according to population size.
But no. And the Central Europeans aren't the only ones who dig in their heels.
Dublin II regulation for asylum applicants, which means that refugees can only apply for asylum in the EU country that they enter -- and then must remain there until a decision is made on their status.
Of course, this raises hackles in frontline states Greece and Italy, which feel swamped with refugees out of Africa and the Middle East.  This completely unfair status quo is one of the explanations for Italy's far right coming to power there.
Another option is the creation of screening centers in northern Africa to process refugee claims before they arrive in Europe -- but the African nations object. Another proposal, clearly appealing to Europe's right wing, is more financing for securing EU's external borders to keep refugees from applying for asylum in the first place.
Seehofer and his CSU have staked everything on the issue, thus putting Merkel under extreme pressure. It's even conceivable that should Merkel fail to deliver, the CSU would pull out of the Berlin coalition and let the government fall. There are already murmurings about possible successors to Merkel.
The end of Merkel's tenure would not however solve anything. New elections would probably even boost the AfD, which is the prime mover behind the entire imbroglio in the first place.
The small far-right party may be in opposition but it is wielding more clout than anyone thought possible just six months ago. After all, through its willing helpers in Bavaria's CSU, it has all of Europe on hold.
******
The European response to the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" of illegal migration and especially the controversial separation of children from their parents has largely been one of outrage and disgust.
thundered Britain's Observer newspaper in an editorial.
he tweeted in June, although the statistics show otherwise.
"Big mistake made all over Europe in allowing millions of people in who have so strongly and violently changed their culture!" Trump added -- a wild assertion.
Many Europeans take umbrage at Trump's attacks. But even if they don't subscribe to his "zero tolerance" approach to migration, European governments have also become much tougher in handling migrants, asylum seekers and even minorities already resident.
died at sea this year trying to reach Europe. But there is no coordinated rescue response; the European Union has left it to merchant ships and nongovernmental organizations to pick up those adrift. And two of those NGO vessels have been detained in Malta.
The Europeans' focus is on pushing the problem back to the Middle East and North Africa. Italy is bolstering the Libyan coast guard; more migrants are being sent back to already crowded detention centers in Libya.
fighting for her job, has proposed setting up "reception centers" in several North African states, most of which have already said they'll have nothing to do with the plan. She has also offered to help Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovenia improve border security.
Those who do make it to Germany would be confined for up to 18 months in what Berlin euphemistically calls "anchor centers" -- large camps close to the border -- while their asylum requests are processed.
Meanwhile, the number of migrants crossing the Mediterranean declined sharply after 2015 from 1.07 million to 360,000 in 2016 and 172,000 in 2017, according to the International Organization on Migration. So why the drastic measures, if the flow of migrants has already ebbed?
now Italy -- are made up of those populist and right-wing parties. The result is a battery of laws making asylum harder, repatriation quicker and detention camps more common.
'We can do this'
"Refugees Welcome" was the slogan at football stadiums and town halls. At the time, Trump said what Merkel had done was "insane. They're going to have riots in Germany."
He was wrong about the riots, but 2016 saw a sharp increase in violent attacks on migrants in Germany. The mood has soured since that summer of compassion three years ago; and not just in Germany.
poll in the autumn of 2016 found that in eight European states, including Britain, France, Germany and Italy, more than 70% agreed that people had become "more negative about immigrants or other groups that are different to them" than previously.
That doesn't mean a majority are negative; it means that, to a growing minority, immigration has become the most important issue. This has benefited the parties of the radical right, such as the People's Party in Austria, Fidesz in Hungary and the Five Star Movement in Italy.
In Germany, it's the threat of the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) that has prompted a crisis within Merkel's coalition government, with her junior partner the Christian Social Union demanding tougher measures on migration to defend itself against the AfD in upcoming Bavarian elections.
refuse to allow a ship with some 600 would-be migrants to dock, forcing the vessel to divert to Spain. Malta followed Italy's lead. Matteo Salvini, the Interior Minister and leader of Five Star, says his aim is to end all arrivals by boat.
pushed through a law that treats helping any illegal migrant as a crime.
Despite objections from the Council of Europe, the continent's top human-rights body, the Hungarian government said the law would "assert the will of the Hungarian people" by prohibiting "the resettlement of alien population groups in this country."
The Slovenian Democratic Party (SDS) emerged as the largest party in elections last month with a campaign modeled on Orban's. The Hungarian premier even attended an SDS rally, warning that Europe's aim was "to settle among us people who do not belong to our culture, and who will want to live here according to their own religions and customs."
But mainstream parties have also adopted tougher measures on asylum-seekers and migrants. The same French government that sniffed at Trump's "model of civilization" has pushed through a new law that toughens asylum rules and makes it easier to deport would-be migrants. It also doubles the length of time -- to three months -- that individuals who have been denied asylum can be detained. But it allowed for children to be kept in detention with their families.
seize assets exceeding $1,500 from asylum seekers to help pay for their subsistence.
A new package of measures aims at forcing assimilation in 25 low-income and mainly Muslim areas the government openly refers to as ghettos. It includes mandatory day care -- for at least 30 hours a week -- for children up to six years old, so they can learn Danish "values." If families fail to comply they can lose their benefits.
Lost in the noise is the fact that migration is keeping Europe alive. Birth rates in all 28 European Union countries are below replacement rates. Germany alone needs 400,000 immigrants a year to sustain its workforce, according to one recent study. This week Italy's pensions chief warned the system would go bust without migrants joining the workforce.
Europe has had its fair share of crises -- failing banks, terrorism, the ongoing divorce known as Brexit -- but has rarely seemed so much in disarray as over migration.
"How we deal with the migrant question will decide whether Europe continues to exist in the future," Merkel told the German parliament a week ago. Alice Weidel of the AfD retorted: "Under your regime Germany has gone from a motor and stability guarantor to a factor for chaos."
The stakes, for Chancellor Merkel, for Germany and for Europe, could not be higher. And President Trump is enjoying the spectacle.
******
As the first members of the boys' soccer team trapped in a cave in Thailand were rescued Sunday, the focus begins to shift to the boys' long-term health and getting them proper medical aid.
The plight of the 12 boys and their soccer coach have captured international attention after they became trapped in the flooded cave more than two weeks ago. The boys range in age from 11 to 16.
The first of the boys emerged from the cave Sunday evening in Thailand. A contingent of 13 international cave diving experts and five Thai Navy Seals descended into the watery network of underground tunnels below the Mae Sai mountains to reach the boys. The divers navigated a series of dark, flooded tunnels for up to six hours.
The rescue is two-pronged: to help the boys who have been brought out of the cave, while working to save the remaining boys and coach still trapped inside. The rescue operation, authorities said, has paused for the night. Authorities said oxygen tanks needed to be refilled before continuing.
"It was a very smooth operation today," one top Thai official said of the four boys rescued.
Health experts said, authorities would first be checking the rescued boys' exposure to a lack of oxygen while in the cave. Thai officials on Friday said oxygen levels in the cave air plummeted dangerously to just 15%.
"One of the major concerns is oxygen right now. They've been in an area where oxygen levels are low," Dr. Darria Long Gillespie of the University of Tennessee School of Medicine told CNN. "As soon as they get out, that's what they'll be checking: their oxygen levels and their breathing."
They will also be checked for malnutrition, dehydration and an array of other health effects.
Dr. Carole Lieberman, a psychiatrist who is also a scuba diver, called it "an amazing feat" that some of the boys had been rescued. She said officials would need to check for post-traumatic stress and other psychological effects on the boys.
The lack of oxygen in the cave, she said, "makes people feel less alert. It makes them move less. Some people describe it as being drunk, and it also decreases their mood."
She said it would be extremely important to relay the good news of the first boys' rescue to the others who remain trapped inside. "That would be such a boost for their confidence," Lieberman said.
optimal range" of oxygen needed in the air a person breathes in order to maintain normal function is between 19.5% and 23.5%.
oxygen drops below the lower threshold of the optimal level, the body begins to undergo changes and may face the serious risk of hypoxia, the condition that causes altitude sickness, according to OSHA.
Dr. Norman H. Edelman, senior science adviser to the American Lung Association, said the boys' ability to survive "all depends on the mechanics of the ventilation and how big the air space is."
Because the boys and their coach have been trapped for more than two weeks, Edelman "hypothesized" that some ventilation is taking place, though he cautioned that he did not have detailed knowledge of the situation.
"The first thing that happens to the body as oxygen levels decline is, you have a signal to make you breathe more. It's totally analogous to climbing a mountain and going up to, say, 10,000 to 12,000 feet when the oxygen pressure declines," Edelman said.
"So the first thing you feel is a need to breathe more; you may feel a little lightheaded; you may feel a little dizzy. They may have trouble sleeping; they may have headaches while they sleep," he said.
The other problem the boys may experience with declining oxygen is increasing carbon dioxide, the gas we exhale with each breath, Edelman said.
"When carbon dioxide goes up, that's a strong stimulus to breathe, so they'll begin to feel short of breath," he said. "They may be dizzy, they may be confused, but if it happens slowly enough, they will adapt. It's just like climbing a mountain. They will eventually adapt to the low oxygen, unless it goes too low, of course."
Dr. Gillespie at the University of Tennessee said the youth of the boys actually plays to their advantage for survival.
"They are in the prime of their health," she said. "If anybody can endure these moments of potential lower oxygen and other physical challenges, it's going to be young, teenage boys."
******
Despite what many of us want to believe, President Donald Trump is the front-runner in 2020. If you supported him in 2016, you have little reason to regret your choice -- he's working hard to fulfill all his campaign promises. Sure, the polls <a href="https://news.gallup.com/poll/201617/gallup-daily-trump-job-approval.aspx" target="_blank">often show</a> that Trump's approval rating is underwater. But voters are a lot more than just data points graphed onto projections.
No incumbent president in recent history has presided over a strong economy, not been enmeshed in a ground war and lost the next election. So, for those of us who desperately want to see a new president, just telling ourselves that a majority of the voters in key states will see what we see and feel how we feel isn't enough to actually win. It's going to take more than the constant tearing of garments and endless howls of outrage to beat him. It's going to take an outside factor -- like Justice Anthony Kennedy's retirement.
There's no easily foreseeable reason the Senate won't be able to confirm whomever Trump nominates. In theory, Sens. Susan Collins, R-Maine, and Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, could join the 49 Democrats and slow the process, but it may not be realistic to expect every Democrat to stick together, particularly ones up for re-election in red states.
majority of Americans support abortion in all or most cases.
But let's say the five conservative justices can't restrain themselves, accept a case that challenges the underpinnings of Roe, and then overturn 45 years of precedent giving women the right to choose. From a moral standpoint, it's hard to imagine a worse outcome. But from a political standpoint, it may be the only way to beat Trump.
Right now, it's easy to imagine the Democrats' campaign against Trump: "He's amoral. He's diminished the presidency. He's corrupt. He's racist. He's allegedly had sex with a porn star. His West Wing is in constant chaos." All that may be true (though Trump still denies the Stormy Daniels piece). But absent a real case with overwhelming evidence from special counsel Robert Mueller against Trump, none of it is likely to materially change turnout in 2020. The voters knew pretty much all this when they picked him last time -- and that was before he could boast of peace and prosperity (assuming that holds for two more years).
But what if the election isn't about Trump?
If the court hears a challenge to Roe before the next presidential election, it is likely to happen soon. The 8th Circuit, one of the most conservative appellate courts in the country, is reviewing several state abortion law cases from Missouri, Arkansas and Iowa that are good candidates to be appealed to the Supreme Court. If the court takes up one of these cases, it could issue a ruling as early as spring or summer 2020 -- smack in the middle of election season. If states are suddenly given the power to ban abortion, that changes the election -- completely.
Hard core anti-choice voters already voted in 2016. They're going to turn out again in 2020. We know what their ceiling is. But scores of independents, young progressives and people of color stayed home in 2016 because, for many of them, the election was just a choice between two personalities. Whether they like Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders or Joe Biden or Kamala Harris wouldn't be particularly important in 2020, because it would no longer be an election about an individual -- it would be an election about a cause, a freedom, a right.
It would not be about them. It would be about you. It's about putting people in power in the House, the Senate and the Oval Office who can restore your right to choose. That's it. All the flaws of the pro-choice candidate would no longer matter.
There's no doubt that Trump will nominate an anti-abortion judge to the court. There's not much doubt that his nominee is all but confirmed. And absent a ground war or a recession, there's little reason to expect a different outcome in the next election.
Unless the game completely changes. There's one issue in American politics capable of flipping an entire election on its head. And with Kennedy's retirement, it's staring us in the face.
******
Katharine McPhee and David Foster are headed to the altar. 
The former "American Idol" contestant and the Canadian musician confirmed their engagement on Tuesday.
Foster, 68, popped the question to McPhee, 34, while the two were vacationing in Italy, according to the former "Smash" star.
Instagram. "Totally dark, only stars."
This will be McPhee's second marriage.
Foster has been married four times and has five children. His last marriage was to "Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" star, Yolanda Hadid.
McPhee and Foster first crossed paths in 2006 when Foster served as a mentor during love songs week in Season 5 of "American Idol," on which McPhee was competing.
******
