38-year-old Wisconsin man, Louis Shortpecker, recently told news reporters that he feels like a complete loser.  "I'm not really sure why, but sometimes I get the subtle feeling that I'm a complete loser. Maybe I feel this way because I haven't achieved all of my personal and professional goals, or perhaps it's because I've never had a successful relationship. Sometimes I wonder if I feel like a failure simply because my schooling never really got me anywhere. The feeling may even be a result of the fact that I have trouble staying on top of things during the week." 
When further questioned, Louis stated: 
"It could be possible that I'm just being too hard on myself, or it may be due to the fact that my mom came up to me earlier today and said,  You really are a big disappointment!' Immediately after that, my next-door neighbor came over and said, 'Louis! I've known you for years, and I just wanted to tell you that you are a total fuck-up and a douche-bag!' A few minutes ago, an old classmate of mine also sent me a text message telling me that I am a hopeless piece of shit. Maybe those are the reasons why."
After the interview, Louis went home feeling extremely downtrodden only to further discover that there were no messages on his dating profile and that nobody had "liked" his last Facebook Post. 
Much to his own chagrin, he also found out that his therapist had committed suicide, and that his dog had run away in order to find a new owner.
******
A man travelling back to his home in Battambang on a motorcycle being ridden by his wife, experienced a strange phenomenon this afternoon, when he noticed that, although one side of the road was <strong>wet</strong> and had <strong>puddles</strong>, the opposite side was <strong>bone dry</strong>!
No stranger to freakish weather conditions, Moys Kenwood, 54, remarked to his wife about the odd sight, and the pair discussed how it seemed as though the road itself had acted as some sort of 'dividing line' for the rain that had obviously been falling in the area.
Mrs Kenwood said that it was "mere coincidence" that the rain had stopped where it had, and that 'rain wasn't aware of any man-made geographical barriers which governed where it fell'.
Her husband disputed this. He told her about an occasion when he was once cycling home in a rainstorm, travelling from east to west along Garrison Road in Hull, and crossed the Myton Bridge over the River Hull which divides the city. <strong>Soaked to the skin</strong>, he rode down the bridge's west side to discover that, here, there had been no rain, and west Hull was bathed in sunshine! He asked her what she thought of that, but she just smiled and shook her head, as if she had just had to sit through some 'playground tale' recounted by a slightly-retarded 5-year-old. She said:
"The rain has to stop somewhere, so, once in a while, it might be that the edge of the cloudline just happens to be aligned with something at ground level. There's nothing magical about it, you simpleton!"
Slightly offended at being spoken to like an imbecile, Mr Kenwood sat in silence for the rest of the journey, wishing he could prove her wrong.
******
On 4th July 1776 or thereabouts (frankly who cares?) the Continental Congress declared the thirteen American colonies to be a new nation, the United States of America and no longer part of the British Empire. 
This move was in reality a massive tax dodge and to this day the American public hates the idea of paying for public services, roads, healthcare, infrastructure etc. which is why the country is in such a mess, but that's their decision and they have to live with it. Don't pity them.
We at The Spoof realise the anguish and regret which our American cousins suffer from not being British but we aren't averse to a bit of Schadenfreude. It is in this altruistic spirit that we take great delight in taunting our ex-colonials on the delights and benefits which they have missed through this folly in their 240 years of so-called independence.
Real beer, served warm. Number one on any right thinking person's list. You have to put up with such things as Schlitz, the beer that made Milwaukee infamous (for selling piss that is) and Budweiser which gives the writer a belly ache and a bad case of the jam tarts. By the way, this beer is based on the original Budweiser or Budvar from the Czech Republic, which is actually drinkable, and you had the nerve to sue over the name? Guess what? You lost. We at least have true Brit beers like Black Sheep Ale, Shepherd Neame's Spitfire, India Pale Ale and erm....Stella Artois.
Proper McDonalds. It's a little known fact that McDonald's was originally a fish and chip shop in "Bonny" Scotland. Guess what? Our American chums tried to sue again over the name and guess what again? Yup, you lost again as half the Scottish population is called McDonald and amazingly they own shops all over the place. 
Fish and chips. Best from McDonalds, (dig dig) True British food. Grab a piece of cod out of the icy North Sea, preferably stolen from Iceland's fishing grounds, smother it in beer batter, fry it up and add some nice fat chips. Scrumptious. Not like some weedy cow pat covered in multi-coloured sauce.
Winning the World Cup (football not soccer). So, maybe it was in 1966, but it was still our victory not yours. So you've got your own World Series. "World" Series? Do me a favour. USA, Canada, Mexico, Japan and Western Samoa? Is that your "world"? Donald Trump's maybe.
Subjugation of one third of the world's peoples during the hey day of the great British Empire. Some say this was a bad thing while others disagree wholeheartedly, but they want to take us back to the 1950s and voted for Brexit so they don't understand history. We know you Yanks hanker after this kind of thing too, in South America, and particularly in Cuba and Venezuela which your madman president wants to invade. Unfortunately for you the days of imperialism are long gone, unless it's China building islands in the South China Sea or lending dosh to developing countries to get them into debt with no hope of ever paying it off. Imperialism by stealth, there's a thought. Hmmm.
The early years of two world wars. Where were you? It wasn't the 1917-18 War it was 1914-18 and again 30 years later it wasn't 1941-1945 but 1939-1945. Late again. Just let the mother country exhaust the enemy and then come in to take the glory. Typical latecomers. 
Correct spelling and grammar. Thru is not a word, nor is color, aluminum or honor and as for "I should of", bloody hell. Buy a copy of "First Aid in English" and memorise it.
Royalty. Yes, I know how much you Yanks love the idea of bowing and scraping to so-called royalty. I can't see the attraction myself of going down on bended knee to some in-bred privileged simpleton waster, but some do. You're welcome to them, even your latest addition to the crowd of spongers, Meghan something or other. 
The Slave Emancipation Act of 1833. Late again, "Land of the Free". True, we were major players in the slavery market, but we saw the light 30 years before your Emancipation Proclamation in 1863. But then again some states continued their own apartheid system, officially known as "segregation" for another 100 years. Apparently things still haven't changed a lot for some unfortunates and now your lovely president is on the the Mexicans' case.
Great British cuisine. Roast beef and Yorkshire pudding, haggis (banned in the US, understandably), spotted dick, chicken tikka masala. I rest my case.
******
<strong>BILLINGSGATE POST:</strong> Finally finding religion after turning tricks for the past seven years, Irena Klavisvoka says that she now regrets peeing on the bed once slept in by Barack and Michelle Obama.
“We were just romping around like school girls, and I started to laugh so hard that I peed my pants. Had nothing to do with dissing the Obamas. I had no idea that they had used this bed for sleeping. To me, that is just plain silly.”
Somewhere, British spy Michael Steele must be smiling. Although his notorious dossier that was used to obtain a FISA warrant on Donald Trump made no mention that Irena was wearing pants at the time of the incident, one can only surmise that they may have come off later in the evening.
<strong>There Are Ten Million Stories In The Naked City.</strong> This is but one. Without corroboration, how are we to know what actually happened that evening? Only the Shadow knows.
******
A man in Battambang who was enjoying a cup of tea after his evening meal last night was shocked to find that the bun that he was eating along with his brew contained a foreign body - <strong>a staple</strong>.
Moys Kenwood, 54, was halfway through the chocolate bun when he felt a jolt, and experienced what he could only describe as "a grating sound" as his teeth tried to get to grips with the stationery consumable.
Having realised he had bitten off something he couldn't chew, the Englishman spat out <strong>the cud</strong> onto his plate, and carefully examined it for 'the thing that shouldn't be there'. On locating it, he was able to deduce what had happened. Kenwood:
"The six buns come in a clear, sturdy, plastic cake bag, which is folded over several times to prevent air from entering, and then sealed at the top with three staples. I suspect that, somewhere in the production process, a stray staple has come into contact with the bun mix, and become part of the bun."
After isolating the staple, and sealing it in a tiny forensic-style airseal bag, Kenwood returned to the place of purchase to <strong>confront</strong> the seller, and to demand an apology, but was told, in so many words, to go away.
******
Inspiration strikes at the most unlikely of places and times. According to administration officials, President Trump was so irate when he learned a special place in hell had been designated for Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau that he immediately ordered the Trump Organization to begin development of “a very, very special place in hell” to be emblazoned with the Trump name. And so Trump Hades was born. Finally, a place in hell befitting the great man himself.
Of course, the Trump team immediately began reaching out to their Russian contacts in the underworld. Apparently, Joseph Stalin is on board trying to arrange a meeting with the Prince of Darkness himself.
Reportedly, Trump Hades would include a luxury hotel where you can check out anytime you like but you can never leave, a spa replete with saunas and sulfur pits, a lake of fire, and an 18 hole championship golf course Golf Magazine calls the 18 Circles of Hell.
All of this is contingent on securing financing which could come in the form of a partnership with Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner who is said to be negotiating a sale of his 666 Fifth Ave. property in New York.
******
It was the soundtrack to 1981, the backdrop to an entire summer of crazy 'wing-flapping' on the dancefloor, and probably the worst record you ever heard, but the Birdie Song by The Tweets is up for re-release next month.
Originally written in the 1950s by Werner Thomas, an accordion player from Davos in Switzerland, the oom-pah song became popular at drinking festivals, such as Oktoberfest, where the 'chicken dance' was invented. 
It was released on vinyl in Holland in 1980, and then in the UK by The Tweets in 1981, where it 'soared' into the charts at number 2. You could hear it everywhere: the radio, the TV, people humming it in the street, on the bus, at work, in the dole office, betting shop and pub. It even got played in nightclubs, where drunken, fighting hordes temporarily forgot their disputes, and flapped their 'wings' in unison on the dancefloor until they collapsed, threw up, or laid an egg. 
To many people, it became 'a huge, sinister and hideous presence' from which they were unable to escape, an insidious, lingering threat around every corner, and the source of countless sleepless nights when brains refused to forget it, and amplified it to 'crescendo level'. It was The Summer Of Tired Eyelids. In 2000, it was voted 'The Most Annoying Song Of All Time' by dotcom.
Twitter has agreed to sponsor the release, to which there have been no changes at all, allowing music fans to live through the nightmare once more.
Release date: 32nd July.
******
A woman who had literally two good days growing up is going on a vacation this summer to relive those “good old days.” 
The only two good days the woman, named Liz, had as a kid was when she went on a family vacation to Disney World. Well, it wasn't actually Disney World, it was an Amish Village in Pennsylvania, but her father told her it was Disney World. Liz was very small at the time and didn’t know the difference. She thought the McDonald’s Play Place on the Pennsylvania Turnpike was the Magic Kingdom. 
It was a wonderful two days, even though she was a bit surprised that the rides at Disney World were horse and buggy powered. But she was just happy to be on vacation. She even took a picture with Mickey Mouse. It wasn’t Mickey, of course — it was an actual mouse they found in the hotel room — but still, it was a magical time for young Liz. 
Liz got weepy thinking about it, mostly because it reminded her how sad and pathetic her childhood was. But she wanted to relive those two good days through her kids. Her kids, however, were not at all happy about it. They had made a vow to not go outside all summer and this would end their streak at three weeks. Plus, they had never been to a state that was rectangular, so there some geometric concerns as well.
But vacations were very important to their father Tom, who was hell bent on going on vacation every year, even if it was a terrible place that no one wanted to go to. The family always went somewhere weird and cheap that Tom found in an ad in a truck stop coupon magazine. Like next year, for example, they already have their vacation booked to London to visit Big Ben. Big Ben is their uncle who lives in a trailer park in London, Arkansas.
******
A couple who went to view a council house in the West Midlands were astonished when the next-door-neighbor emerged from his own home, looked the newcomers up and down, unzipped the fly in his jeans, and urinated in his privet.
The incident took place in the Lower Gornal area of Dudley in 2008, but I've only just remembered it.
Moys Kenwood, then 44, and his Thai then-wife turned up at the address to give it the 'once-over', but, having arrived early, they sat down on the doorstep to await the council official who had the keys to the property, and who would show them around it.
The viewing of the 'bricks and mortar' became almost unimportant however, when the bare-chested descendant of a recently-tree-dwelling tribe of apes came lunging out of his house to give his prospective new neighbors his very own 'once-over'. The beast looked straight at the couple, and obviously spotted something he didn't like about them. Without shifting his gaze, he reached for his zip, walked over to his privet hedge, and <strong>watered it with piss</strong>. Whilst so doing, he shouted down the street to some children that nobody could yet see:
"Get in here for your fucking dinners, you lot!"
From nowhere, there were suddenly half-a-dozen urchins homing-in on their 'fucking dinners', all looking like extras from a remake of 'Oliver', and none of whom you would want living next-door to you. 
At that precise moment, the council official drove up in his car, but could see for himself that he'd had a wasted journey when his eyes fixed on the Neanderthal Neighbor, and his brats running amok. 
The three people in this story who <strong>did not belong in the town's zoo</strong>, spoke briefly to schedule a meeting later that week, and then fled the scene.
******
In a move designed to control his chronic over-use of the internet, a man in Battambang has put his advanced smartphone aside, and started to use his Nokia 6300 telephone again instead.
The Nokia 6300, a Christmas present in 2007, is the most reliable piece of equipment Moys Kenwood has ever owned, and far outstrips the newfangled Samsung J6 he currently tries, but fails, to understand.
Allowing him to access the internet, the J6 seemed to be perfect for the Englishman's needs: Facebook, Messenger, emails, news updates, plus other items the mysterious Algorithms thought might interest him, but recently, he felt, his life had gone on vacation to a destination he didn't like, and he was now going to bring it back home.
Putting his smartphone back in its box, and then in a safe place, he charged the Nokia up, and took it to work with him the next day along with a book - 'The Complete Tales Of Nikolai Gogol' - so that, instead of wasting countless hours scrolling up-and-down nonsensical Facebook pages, he could waste those same countless hours reading Ukranian folktales.
******
The Stanley Cup-winning Washington Capitals is the first Washington, D.C. sports team to win a major sporting event since the Washington Senators won the World Series in 1924. 
Most of the team, however, have decided that it would take too long to drive to the White House, even though the team practices not far from there.
"I would have to make three left turns to get there and that's unlucky" said one player.
"My wife's car will be blocking my car in the driveway that afternoon and we always get in a fight when I want her to move it" alibied another player.
"I really don't know where the White House is and I hear they have really bad traffic" said the only other player willing to comment.
******
In a few months, following Trump's removal from office, his border wall will also be removed. 
Drum roll!
The committee for the Restoration of America is planning a four-day celebration to commemorate the takedown. While heads of state are eager for an invitation, Putin won’t be invited to this party. 
The wall will be decorated with a string of Trump-like pinatas. When struck open, instead of the traditional candies, a deluge of hamburgers and chocolate cakes will spill out. 
Ayeeee, Que Bueno!
Added to the festivities, subscriber donating a fee will be given one hundred feet of the wall to destroy. The first three subscribers to collapse their section of wall will be awarded a Liberty of Freedom Award, which is a plaque with a giant orange chilly pepper, and a photograph of their demolished section. Using bulldozers, dynamite, chisels or any creative tool that comes to mind will be acceptable. A destruction derby driving old cars into the wall will also be okay, though not very rational. Acid use will not be accepted as it is environmentally unfriendly.
Once the wall is down, festivities for the coast to coast party will begin. Free baseball caps will read: Make America &amp; Mexico Amigos Again.
Because who doesn’t like chili, quesadillas, Salma Hayek, Taco Bell, tamales, enchiladas, cerveza, flans, and churros? And from facials to guacamole dip, there is no end to the benefits of avocados. 
Caramba!
During the four day celebration, at the strike of each hour, a man wearing a top hat, orange suit with tails will be blasted out of a canon, over the wall and into Mexico. A tree will be planted to mark his landing spot. Trees will replace the wall from sea to shining sea. 
There will also be a Trump look-alike contest for either male or female contestants and with a bikini contest.
The I.Q. test will ask questions like: How many presidents can you name; a spelling bee; name ten homonyms; what is the longest word you can spell? The Trump contestant with the lowest score will be the Trump look-alike champion. 
Que Bueno!
******
Roseanne Barr was called "Lady Hitler" by Michelle Wolf on Wolf's new Netflix show, "The Break". Much of this criticism has to do with Barr's online behavior and the so-called “double standard” concerning the horrid comment she made electronically concerning Valerie Jarrett and African-Americans as a whole.
 “Everyone’s been saying it’s so brave of ABC to cancel their hit show, but the bold move was actually putting this lady Hitler chef back on the air in the first place. So kudos to ABC, it takes a lot of courage to fire someone after they’ve been openly racist for the thousandth time,” Michelle Wolf said of the good-for-nothing Barr, who should have been a hanger-on at an inner-city convenience store in Honolulu, making bizarre threats and diatribes to the clerks, rather than making a gawdzillion dollars as her role as big, bad, vociferous volcano-mouthed mama. The series was even named after the racist renegade. For how many years - oh it seems like eons or epochs - the American public has been bombarded by that amorphous mass of madness and mayhem with that show titled, "Roseanne".
Like her hero, Donald Trump, Roseanne Barr has a strong penchant - maybe even an addiction - to tweeting. Yes, she herself is a singing, ringing tweety bird. And the tweet that caused “Roseanne’s” cancellation was one of many conspiracy-fueled posts from Barr during the overnight period of May 29.
And like her alter-ego, the Great Leader of the Orange Race, Barr can't stop at one tweet. She has to rifle off a whole fusillade of the stupid, silly, stupendous 148-character blasphemies to fellow members of the human race. The most offensive of these that night was when she wrote that if the “Muslim brotherhood &amp; planet of the apes had a baby, it would be former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett." (Valerie Jarrett is an African-American woman and Barr is inferring here, in a wider scope, that all Black folks are apes or monkeys.)“Roseanne’s Twitter statement was abhorrent, repugnant and inconsistent with our values,” said Channing Dungey, president of ABC Entertainment, in a statement. Then Dungey announced that the network was ending the highly rated reproduction of Barr’s 1990s series. It didn't take long for ABC to come to their decision to shit-can "Roseanne", either. The cancellation was announced the same day of Roseanne's all-night tweeting splurge on May 29.
It's a shame the series was cancelled, but really, it had to be. The reason I write that it's a shame it got shit-canned was because even though this satire and comedy writer finds Barr to be an overrated hack as far as being a comedian and actor is concerned, the show's other actors are finding themselves in a limbo that they don' t deserve. Because of Barr's selfishness, stupidity, and slimy sarcasm, these actors are left to face unemployment. Though none of them, I don't think, will end up sleeping on a Salvation Army cot or eating at a soup kitchen, they are still left jobless in a Hollywood that can be brutal and forgetful of the stars of yesterday.
I have the utmost respect and admiration for John Goodman, who was Barr's husband on the series. In his many appearances on Saturday Night Live, Goodman never failed to deliver the ultimate punch lines when he did his stand-up routines at the opening of these shows. And as an actor in sundry movies, Goodman proved himself as the ultimate character actor in the comedic roles that he filled with such grace and ease. He did a great job playing a bullying and dangerous con-man bible salesman in Oh Brother Where Art Though, for example. <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bWP07YgUWig" rel="nofollow" target="_self">Even in this Talking Heads' video</a>, he is downright funny and intriguing.
Yes, although Barr had to take up space and add weight to "Roseanne", Goodman was the guiding force and backbone behind the show's success. But in the remake of the series, Goodman seemed too warm and fuzzy and lacked the grit and the grime of the character in the earlier series, who was more akin to a modern-day Fred Flintstone than the hen-pecked, kid-loving wimp that appeared on the brief, stodgy, stupid remake of the lame. decades-later, nostalgia-driven re-take.
On "The Break", Michelle Wolf hit Roseanne Barr with a double whammy, and pointed out a swill of never-ending hell for the minority group that Barr blasted in her tweet, too, offering the argument: "How about we enslave all white people for a couple hundred years and even after they’re not slaves anymore, still hold them down in society, devalue their existence by comparing them to animals, never apologize, never really make it right, and then after that there will be no more double standards and everyone will get fired for everything they say!”
Sure, some intellectually deprived, fellow racists of Barr might have seen this megallon mama as cute, clever, and funny, but in all actuality, racism should never be the impetus or the staring point of building a punch line or a one-liner around. For all too long now, Roseanne Barr has made a fortune by kicking the can around. It's good to see Barr's big, fat can being kicked off the air, though, and God Save the Queen, along with Michelle Wolf. It's good to know that there are still a few sane, rationale, caring people in high places in this crazy country, which is currently owned and operated, it seems, by fucking losers and lunatics!
******
A teacher at a school in Battambang recoiled in horror this afternoon, when a boy in his classroom picked a huge bogey from his nose, <strong>and ate it</strong>!
There's really not much more to it than that, but, if you force me to expand on it, I will.
The boy, aged about 5, was sitting at the back of the room, in the right-hand corner during a Phonics class which started at 3:30pm this afternoon. Just like the teacher, he was visibly tired, and was daydreaming, probably about what he was going to do when he got out of this tedious, onerous and pointless Phonics class, and was allowed to go home. 
The possibilities were endless. He could play football with his friends, ride his bicycle, climb trees, chase the chickens and ducklings in his yard, throw stones at cows or passing motorcyclists, destroy an ants' nest by setting it alight, or go bathing in the muddy, brown waters of the river that ran behind the back of his house.
The student was having similar thoughts.
Suddenly, and without warning, the student thrust his left index finger into his nasal cavity, rotated it 90°, and then removed it, revealing a long, straggly, olive-colored piece of matter which hung from under his nail. With a vacant look in his eyes, he gently placed the 'thing' on his lips, from where his tongue dragged it into his mouth, lizard-like.
Time stood still. The other students regarded the frozen aspect of the teacher's gaze. He had been the only one in the room to have seen what had just happened, and his brain was still processing the information. Suddenly, the school bell rang; the torment, the pain, the lesson was over. The Boy Who Ate A Bogey put on his schoolbag, and ran to the door with his pals, probably still chewing the 'thing' that he should not have been chewing, and disappeared into the corridor.
Police are not investigating.
******
Reports have reached TheSpoof.com that a man has become stuck <strong>in a rut</strong>.
The man, who must remain nameless because I don't want to give him the attention he <strong>craves</strong>, is said to have been in an extreme state of lethargy lately, and has done nothing worthwhile for a long time.
His work has suffered, and colleagues have remarked openly about how he seems to be 'going through the motions', <strong>churning out</strong> questionable results, and making everyone around him feel slightly embarrassed, not to say 'uneasy'. One of his closest friends at work says he found a scrap of paper on the man's desk with the telephone number of the Samaritans on it.
Another friend of the unnamed man who himself wished to remain nameless, said:
"He's an OK guy, so long as everyone's slapping him on the back, but he doesn't take rejection well. You might well say he's a total attention-seeker, and it's absolutely true that he really doesn't like being ignored."
The problem seemed to have started quite recently with a downturn in his fortunes, and what can only be called <strong>'rejections'</strong>, compounded by other 'societal pressures' outside his sphere of influence, but, in reality, the roots lie deep in his past, in situations that have remained buried for decades, but which are now beginning to emerge once more.
It's known that the man has set up various social networking accounts purely to gain attention, and convinces himself that the people who are his 'friends' actually 'like' him and his work, unlikely though this might seem. 
On his Facebook page, he briefly loaded a link to a YouTube video of the punk classic, 'In A Rut' by The Ruts, which may be a forewarning of things to come, bearing in mind what happened to that group's lead vocalist, the talented, but <strong>directionless</strong>, Malcolm Owen.
The man's profile as a 'loner' in real-life, and somebody who regards himself as 'rather better than other people', is consistent with those 'of a creative mind', but also madness, and he, himself, openly admits to the latter.
******
A man in the Cambodian second-city of Battambang has reported that he became confused over the weekend , when he started thinking about the word <strong>'millennium'</strong>.
Moys Kenwood, 54, claims he has always had trouble with this word and other words which he does not have to think about very often. Said he:
"It's not a particularly difficult word, at only ten letters, but the question always arises as to how many times the letter 'n' should appear in it."
It's a common problem.
English is a very strange language, and there is a proliferation of words with confusing spellings. Kenwood again:
"If we use 'n' twice in 'millennium', why is there only one 'n' in 'millionaire'? To further confuse things, there is the question of why there are two in 'questionnaire'!"
The flummoxed Englishman also confessed that he didn't understand why, when many people tend to use 'further', they don't use 'farther'. This, he says, is especially so when they need to express 'a greater distance'. Even the Oxford English Dictionary lists 'further' as:
"...1. more distant in space or time."
Kenwood disagreed, arguing:
"Personally, I regard 'farther' as being relative to 'space', and 'further' as being relative to 'a greater extent' or 'more'. Furthermore, 'farthest', not 'furthest', is the word I would use to describe a geographical point that is the greatest distance from the point on which I am now standing."
He went further, not farther:
"I would use 'further' to back up, or consolidate, a point I had made earlier with more supporting evidence. Likewise, if I wish to expand upon a particular point, to 'say something more' about something, I would use 'further', but I seem to be going against the OED on this, so they are wrong."
Another thing that is often misunderstood, according to Kenwood, is, if the prefix 'in' usually means 'not' - as in the words 'inexpensive' and 'infrequent' - why do the words 'flammable' and 'inflammable' have the same meaning?
Bamber Gascoigne is 83.
******
Cooperstown, NY. Sources close to the office of Commissioner of Baseball Rob Manfred have learned that he will soon announce that the West division of the National League has been ousted from Major League Baseball and sent down to the minors. For the rest of the season, the five teams will operate as the Southwest League, Class AA. 
Manfred's justification is that as the halfway point in the season approaches, four of the five teams - Rockies, Giants, Dodgers and Padres - were playing at a .500 or below average, while the division leader, the Arizona Diamondbacks, had a mediocre .520 percentage as of last weekend. "They're an embarrassment to organized baseball," he reportedly said.
Not since the era of Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis has any commissioner dared to assert such dictatorial power. Landis, who governed baseball with an iron fist from 1920-1944, was given the power to rule by decree when he accepted the post, following the Black Sox scandal. After Landis, league owners carefully avoided bestowing such power on his successors.
Owners as well as players have expressed dismay at the proposed ouster of the West from MLB. A former Colorado manager tweeted: "Who does he think he is, Donald Trump?" A San Francisco Giant, who remained anonymous, said: "We've won three world series in this decade and he wants to throw us to the dogs?" Tom Lasorda, who led the Dodgers to their last World Series championship, pointed out that this L . A. team was in the series last fall, forcing the Astros to go seven games. "This ain't no minor league club," he said, angrily.
Rumor has it that five teams from either the International League or the Mexican League will be asked to take over the remaining schedule of the clubs they would replace.
******
Roseanne Barr, the comedienne whose 'Roseanne' show made a stunning comeback recently, has been labelled 'big' and 'large', by Valerie Jarrett, a Senior Advisor to former president Barack Obama.
The roly-poly funnywoman, 65, whose new version of the show was been aired by ABC until it was dropped yesterday because of an allegedly racist tweet, is such a porker, and that doesn't tell the half of it!
'Roseanne', which was the most popular show on US TV in 1989 and 1990, starred the <strong>rotundess</strong>, and was a massive hit, winning several awards, but Barr could never escape her shape, which was, essentially, 'round'.
Barr starred as Roseanne Conner, who lived with her husband Dan (John Goodman) and their three children. Storylines usually revolved around the significance of the Conners being a blue-collar working class family in 80s/90s America, and never dwelt on <strong>obesity</strong>.
ABC reversed its renewal decision and canceled 'Roseanne' after racist remarks made by Barr on Twitter about Jarrett. 
The former presidential advisor responded that:
"I know Roseanne Barr is a comedienne, and that she was only joking, and that she didn't really mean to be hurtful, so I forgive the no-longer-funny, big, large bitch, unreservedly."
******
A Science project at a school in Battambang attracted about as much interest from students as it did from their foreign teacher - that is, <strong>none</strong>.
The children, all aged around 11, were required by the school authorities to participate in the project that would focus on 'animals and their young', but the effect this news had on the class, was akin to a submarine crew being told they could not surface, and that their oxygen supply tanks were empty.
Teacher, Moys Kenwood, was even less keen. Knowing that the project was intended merely for something to show parents visiting the school, and to <strong>dupe</strong> them into believing that their children were actually learning something in Science, the Englishman tried to feign enthusiasm, but failed miserably. He grumbled:
"A young dog is a puppy; a young cat is a kitten; a young cow is a calf, and a young horse is a foal. A young chicken is, not surprisingly, a chick, but who gives a fuck? The students know about the young of animals, but this knowledge, accompanied by a pencil-drawing and a bit of coloring, should not be taken as evidence that any of them will soon be writing groundbreaking scientific papers."
The project continues to trundle along at zero interest per hour (i/ph).
******
In what appears to be a misguided attempt to get a break from their teenage sons, a Nevada couple purposefully attempted to cross the U.S./Mexico border illegally. 
According to reports, Stan and Fran Druzinski of Winnemucca, Nevada were caught attempting to swim across the Rio Grande near El Paso. The couple allegedly approached a border patrol officer saying, "no habla ingles" and "yo no se." It was later discoverd that "I don't speak english" and "I don't know" were the only two phrases Mr. Druzinski could remember from three years of spanish class in high school. The border patrol officer reported something odd about their encounter as the two sons were quoted as saying, "what the hell are you doing mom?" while the parents tried to cover their mouths. Despite his suspicions, the officer followed protocol, separating the family and sending them to different detention centers. 
Throughout the next several weeks the boys were very disruptive during their stay at Casa Padre, with several workers describing them as the "worst behaved kids we've ever had here." 
"They kept calling the other kids "dill weeds" and complaining about the food and lack of Play Station 4s" one employee at the facility stated.
It wasn't until their deportation hearing that the parents fessed up. Mrs. Druzinski described her detention as the "most relaxing three weeks of my life" and Mr. Druzinski stated that he hadn't "had that much fun since college."
The decision to get themselves arrested seemed to stem from a recent altercation with their children that neighbors described as "typically nasty" where both boys hung their parent's underwear out on a tree in front of the house. There is a long documented history of incidents where the children were obstinate and disrespectful to their parents. 
When pressed during the hearing, Stan explained, "we just really needed a break from them. We love our boys, but they're total bastards." 
"we really had hoped for a little more appreciation for all of the hard work we've put into raising them at this point," Fran stated, eliciting laughter from the other people in attendance. 
Although authorities strongly suggest against taking such extreme measures to get a little break from your brat kids the Druzinskis stayed very positive despite being charged a heavy fine of $20,000.
"Best money I ever spent," Stan Druzinski said.
"If I was given a second chance I'd do it all over again," Fran agreed.
******
There was trouble with a capital 'T' in Tapon this morning when it was discovered that a bicycle belonging to the daughter of a writer at satirical news website TheSpoof.com had been <strong>stolen</strong>.
Delma Kenwood, 3, daughter of Moys Kenwood, loved that fucking bike, a red one with stabilisers, and the callous thieves who crept up to the house last night would do well to ensure that I don't find out their identities, because, without too many questions being asked, their hands could be removed at the wrist, or a hole could be dug for them somewhere remote, and people persuaded to 'look the other way' for not much more than the price of a new bike.
Neighbors sympathised with the victim. One said:
"Never mind, love. Your daddy will buy you a nice, new bike."
Kenwood flashed this neighbor an angry look, but, seeing his daughter's face <strong>light up</strong>, he said:
"Yes, yes, come on now, my little treasure. We mustn't let these callous bastards, I mean, misters, get us down, must we?. Let's go to the bike shop, and get you a nice, new bike."
A local woman with <strong>slack jaws</strong>, who had heard about the theft, decided to stop by and offer the benefit of her experience:
"The bastards! I'd have them flogged, though flogging's too good for 'em. I'd tie 'em to the back of a motorbike, and ride all the way to Phnom Penh. That'd give 'em a few scrapes! Or I'd handcuff 'em and put their knackers in a vice, and tighten it one turn every hour - or maybe every day! - until those little balls popped out! Or I'd feed them to tigers! Or crocodiles! Or man-eating ants, Or..." as she wandered off into the distance.
Another neighbor, an old woman of about 80, said:
"It's a sign o' the times. You wouldn't have got that in the old days. Folks was different then. You could leave your back door unlocked. Open, even."
Later, when Delma had brought her nice, new bike home - a violet one with stabilisers, a plastic basket, a bell, and <strong>colored spokes</strong> - she rode around in circles as happy as a pig in shit, singing softly to herself without a care in the world.
Meanwhile, inside the house, Mr Kenwood sharpened a huge knife.
******
The Football Association was reeling today when England fans presented a petition with 45 million signatures begging them not to allow the team to win the World Cup. It had been signed by men, women, children and in one case a Leicester pensioner's cat.
The national crisis was caused by a CBBC broadcast in the series "Nikki Lilly meets..." when the unfortunate Ms. Lilly found herself facing former England goalscorer and TV commentator Gary Lineker's horrendous stories and unfortunate promise, or rather threat, that should the England team win in Russia 2018 he would wear a mankini on Match of the Day.
A visibly shaken Ms. Lilly said after the broadcast "I'm sorry, it wasn't my fault. Can't you see how shocked I am?" 
She expanded on her unpleasant experience:
"Mr. Lineker was always a hero to me. The twinkle in his eye, the in-jokes, the boyish looks, the snarky asides, he was just the perfect older man, but now he's ruined it. I could just about manage the story about pooing himself during a match, but telling me he would wear a mankini? He went too far.
"For the rest of the interview all I could see in my mind's eye was a vision of his nutsack there for all to see. Euuugh! Please Football Association, put a stop to this nightmare for me."
A hastily convened meeting of the "FA blazers" at their headquarters in Wembley announced an internal enquiry and issued an invitation to Mr. Lineker to appear before them to discuss his intentions in a press release.
"The Football Association has invited Mr. Gary Lineker to attend a meeting where we expect him to show us the offending apparel to which he is alluding. In order that we may decide if it is an offensive garment the England Women's team has requested that Mr. Lineker appears before them in private to model said item."
******
Pope Francis has spoken out at the end of a two-day conference in the Vatican, saying that the world must convert to clean fuel, and that climate change was a challenge of "epochal proportions".
But representatives of some of the companies present at the conference, told him to <strong>get his own house in order</strong> before criticising theirs. 
This didn't go down at all well with the Pope.
Bill Bubbleman of ExxonMobil, in a very clever rewording of the Pope's quote "Civilisation requires energy, but energy use must not destroy civilisation," said:
"Civilisation requires Religion, but Religion must not destroy civilisation."
Bubbleman explained how he thought religion was responsible for most of what was going wrong in the world at the moment, and particularly the different conflicts in so many countries. The Pope asked him for evidence of this, and Bubbleman started to provide it, only to be given a<strong> slap in the face</strong> by the feisty Pope, who then gave him the two-fingered sign as his supporters cheered. When the oil man tried to respond to this, the Pope pushed him in the chest, then brought his knee up into the <strong>groin</strong> area of his opponent, doubling him up. With an agility that spoke of martial artistry, the religious leader then took a step backwards and flicked out his right foot into Bubbleman's face. The ExxonMobil man didn't get up from this. He lay in a heap before the Pope, and the crowd cheered again vociferously.
Other companies present at the conference were BP, Royal Dutch Shell, Equinor and Pemex of Mexico, but their representatives said nothing.
******
The White House. 24 minutes ago. Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders called reporters to the Briefing Room a short time ago to announce that President Donald J. Trump had issued another celebrity-championed posthumous pardon. Today's recipient was Mary Surratt, executed on July 7, 1865, for her role in the conspiracy to assassinate President Abraham Lincoln.
Sanders informed reporters that the fading former film great B. B. Blackridge, once known for his role as an enforcer in B movies based on comic book characters but of late a long time between films, had personally met with the president in the Oval Office to present the case for pardoning the first woman executed by the federal government. Blackridge laid out the case for pardoning Surratt, noting that witnesses against her were unreliable, that the trial took place in a military court rather than the civil one she was entitled to, and that the execution was carried out within a week of sentencing.
Trump announced the pardon in a tweet. "A truly great boarding-house operator," Trump wrote of Surratt, adding that "many thought her execution was simply a backlash of anger over the death of the president. She would never have been convicted in a federal court with a jury of her peers. And she was given insufficient time to appeal the erroneous sentence of death. Yes, she was a Confederate sympathizer, but so were half the people in the country."
"The government treated her badly," Trump concluded.
Descendants of Mrs. Surratt could not be reached for comment, but the leftist mainstream media immediately conjectured that this was simply a precedent for pardoning his fellow conspirators in the Russian interference in the 2016 election.
******
News just emerging from the Cambodian city of Battambang this morning, is that an English resident who has been trying for nearly 40 years to solve his Rubik's Cube, has still not done so.
Moys Kenwood, 55, received his Cube as a birthday present way back in 1979, and immediately set about the task of getting the six colors into their correct positions, so that each face of the Cube contained nine squares of the same color.
By Christmas of that year, he had <strong>already</strong> managed to get the nine red squares all on one face, and was hopeful that the full Cube might be completed soon thereafter.
The years passed. Space Invaders and PacMan came and went. Kenwood studied the Singerman Notation, and struggled on. The Twin Towers shocked the world in 2001, but still the colors refused to align themselves in a way which would satisfy Rubik's Judges. A 7-year period teaching in Thailand followed, during which time Marc Waterman's Algorithm, the Roux Method, and Herbert Kociemba's 'Two-Phase Algorithm' were all employed in ever-more desperate attempts to 'do it', all to no avail.
Finally, even after a move to Cambodia in 2016, the annoying plastic cube <strong>grew no less stubborn</strong>, and Kenwood finally tossed it into a cardboard box as punishment, in order that it might reconsider its position, and allow itself to be completed. 
Then, whilst looking for something else this morning, the world's least-successful Rubik's Cube exponent opened the box, and saw his <strong>nemesis</strong> staring at him, 'as bold as brass'. The pair regarded each other. Kenwood had an idea. He decided to 'make a gift of the gift', and gave it to his stepdaughter, Helle. As he handed it over, he smirked to himself, and went to put the kettle on for a cup of tea. That was the last time he'd see that!
Twenty minutes later, however, as he was finishing his brew, his stepdaughter casually walked into the room, talking on her phone, and placed the completed Cube in front of him. He waited until she had gone, then put the Cube back in its <strong>prison</strong>, never to see the light of day again.
******
<strong>BILLINGSGATE POST</strong>: The Wall Street Journal reported today that Trump would not answer questions pertaining to a North Korean trademark awarded for the exclusive franchise rights to the new dog burger franchise named "McMuttleys."
After taking considerable heat from left wing media sources concerning using the Trump name and influence for gaining trademark rights in China, this new revelation by the Wall Street Journal only adds gas to the fire regarding the Trump empire and the Presidency.
This coming after the controversy during the White House visit by then South Korea President Park Geun-hye with President Obama three years ago. At that time it was suspected that Bo, the Obama family dog, had been dog napped by the Korean President. However, this was much ado about nothing as Bo, a Portuguese Water Dog, was found in the Lincoln Bedroom with a coterie that included Kim Kardashian, Quasimodo, George Clooney, the Ayatollah Khomeini, the Papal Nuncio, the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, Lindsey Lohan and the Mayor of Cairo; plus the supernumeraries who held their robes.
It was also reported in the Journal that McMuttleys, instead of a Golden Arch, will feature a dog lifting his leg on a fire hydrant. The “Big Mutt” sandwich will include two layers of dog meat smothered with kimchee on a sesame roll slathered with a special Russian dressing. But to avoid any inferences of collusion, this dressing will be manufactured in a Top Secret location outside the domain of Special Counsel, Robert Mueller.
Trump was out of the country on official government business and was not available for comment on this story. However, Sarah Huckabee Sanders stated that the President couldn’t wait to chomp down on a Big Mutt and fries as soon as he lands in Pyongyang to meet with Kim Jung Un.
******
An aide of President Donald Trump, (Potus - hippopotamus abbreviated), has mistakenly revealed that his wife, Melania is "in for repairs".
Melania Trump has not appeared in public for 24 days and it has now been announced she will not be accompanying her husband on two key foreign trips.
The unnamed Aide who was sacked 2 days earlier for his "incompetent gaffe" due to Donald Trumps (Potus-his family were Scottish Potters) newfound omnipotustent abilty to see into the future, allegedly stated via email to the IT department that " Melania is in for repairs, she's having a chip added to increase empathy and clothes sense and has a couple of mobility problems in the pistons in her arms affecting hand movement plus the usual "wear and tear down there." 
The IT department replied that they would need to install updated software to ensure "Melania's functions continued smoothly."
The President had previously said that he was completely unaware of his wife's whereabouts and had assumed she was shopping with Kim Kardashian.
The Kardashian family have confirmed that Kim is also "in for repairs" following her recent meeting with President Trump.
******
Record numbers of movie fans have been packing into cinemas all over the US this weekend to see 'Texas Chain Store Manager', the new blockbuster from Disney.
The movie features mainly unknown actors from the Austin and Dallas areas, but early reviews have been favorable.
The storyline concerns a girl, Lesley, and her paraplegic brother, Wesley, who go to a chain store in Dallas to return a leather bag which is damaged. Their friends, Milly, Molly and Mally, excited about a trip to the city, go along.
A series of disasters befalls the group. First, they pick up a hitchhiker. He tries it on with Milly and Molly, and Mally kills him with a pocketknife, stabbing him 48 times visible to viewers, but dozens of times out-of-picture. They toss his body into a pond, and drive on, whistling.
Almost out of fuel, they stop at a gas station, but the owner tells them that the pumps are empty. They kill him by driving over him in their vehicle, backwards and forwards, over and over again, until his tangled body looks like a large piece of meat. They syphon gas out of his vehicle using his windpipe.
They see a house a couple of miles farther down the road, and raze it to the ground, then drive to the mall. When they get there, the five, with Wesley in his wheelchair, make straight for the bag shop with branches all over the state, The Texas Bag Chain Store. Lesley takes her bag and approaches the counter, but is absolutely horrified when a man who introduces himself as 'The Manager' confronts her with a face that looks like it has been made from <strong>leather</strong>. She fears she has made a mistake. Anxiously looking round, she sees nothing but power tools, saws, blades and piercing implements. 'Leatherface' explains that they no longer sell bags, and have <strong>diversified</strong> somewhat, so that they now sell big cutting tools. He apologises for not yet having had time to change the store's signage, then reaches under the counter and brings out a large chain saw, with which he decapitates both Wesley and Milly in one movement. 
Lesley screams at him in the movie's defining moment:
"But I've even brought the receipt, Godammit!" 
Mally is next. Leatherface slices him 'in half' from head to feet, giggling. Molly shrieks in terror, but this is cut short as Leatherface leaps over the counter and rams a power drill up against her temple, and 'lets her have it'. The drill bit can be seen passing behind her eyes as they are forced out of their sockets. 
Lesley and her bag are left facing Leatherface in the movie's final scene, but I won't spoil the ending for you.
The film is rated PG.
******
There were concerns for the future of an ancient Scottish hotel, as well as for the safety of its staff this morning, when it was revealed that guests there had staged a violent protest after having eaten the establishment's special hotel-made soup, which, they claimed, had been ruined by the fact that too many people had been involved in making it.
The beautiful, 500-year-old Cruikshank Hotel in Lanarkshire, prides itself on its Scotch Broth, and is widely-renowned for it, but insiders say that the presence and 'assistance' of a host of trainee cooks from a local catering college resulted in it looking like "a watery paste".
The poor serving did not go down well with the discerning diners, and several of their unruly number invaded the kitchen to register their dissatisfaction.
One stomachwitness told me:
"I pay good money to come here, but tonight was like a visit to a local Soup Kitchen."
Another raged:
"This hotel is part of Scottish folklore, but what happened here just now is best forgotten! It was a classic case of the old adage, you know, the one about the soup being got ready by a greater number of people than was absolutely necessary."
Manager at the Cruikshank, burly George Watt, was just as angry. He said:
"We're aware there was a problem with the Broth. Something like this is not good for business. It won't happen again. Not on my watch!"
******
Cupertino, CA. First came an E. coli scare associated with romaine lettuce. That was followed by another health threat involving melons. Now, a nationwide outbreak of a previously unknown strain of cellmonella has forced the Food and Drug Administration to issue a recall of suspected sources. Apples, in particular, have been identified by the agency as the likely cause of the malignancy. Apples have been pulled from stores across the country.
The first indications of an epidemic occurred near Cupertino. Apples had been featured in chain markets there for some time before the first indications of the problem arose. Two weeks ago, patients began showing up at the local Kaiser Permanente hospital, complaining of unusual scabs on ear lobes, constant ringing in one ear, and severe headaches. Some of the complaints reminded doctors of the as yet undiagnosed damage suffered by American diplomatic personnel at the embassy in Cuba and at a consulate in China. But in addition to those symptoms, the most serious problem seems to be cellmonella in the digestive tract, which was not an issue for the diplomats.
Efforts to determine the source of the Cuban and Chinese problems have been unsuccessful. Kaiser doctors believe the illness in the U. S. may be related to electrical waves created by holding tightly the suspected item, but they have been unable to pinpoint the precise cause.
Apples, in the meantime, have been recalled by the FDA in a precautionary move.
******
After the historic first ever man-to-man meeting between US President Donald Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un, in Singapore yesterday, Mr Trump had to request a visit from a local doctor last night after complaining of severe discomfort in his right hand.
The pain is thought to have been caused as Mr Kim clenched Trump's hand rather too tightly in what the North Koreans said was "overzealous enthusiasm", but what the President termed "a declaration of War".
Five minutes later, Trump had toned this down a little, and now told reporters:
"I expect that's how they shake hands in that stupid shithole."
Trump confided to one of his aides, that Mr Kim had gripped his hand "as if he were gripping his weener", and had squeezed it relentlessly until Mr Trump started to <strong>feel faint</strong>. Only when Mr Kim had felt that he had 'the upper hand' did he relinquish his tight grip.
The North Korean party were extremely pleased with how things worked out, and have released a news statement in Pyongyang claiming that Mr Kim now has the US "in the palm of his hand".
The doctor was later able to give Mr Trump's hand the all-clear.
******
Tarquin Smythe Brassington Heckingthump III from Chutney on the Fritz has launched his own artisan coat-hanging business.
Heckingthump III told us, ‘From where I see it, a house overlooking the better part of the Thames, the times are just right for an artisan coat hanging business. We buy the best wire, the best clippers, and my best mates Thumper and Shagger do all of the wire bending and hard-selling’
Thumper, (real name Robert Richie Richie Rich-Bastard II) and Shagger (real name William Williamson XI) will take the hangers around the shops of London, aiming to make a killing.
We didn’t tell Heckingthump that his business is doomed to complete and utter failure.
******
The spectacular crash of the Bitcoin cryptocurrency early this week shook the financial world to its roots, but not all 'investors' were crying in their beer.
Arnold Blimp, an 'amateur speculator', first became interested in Bitcoin when it was first released in 2009, when the value of the unit was US$0.30. Since then, its value has risen steadily, and then fallen back again, only to recover once more, and to soar to new dizzy heights.
Early last week, Bitcoin was at a then-high of US$8,221, then the currency dropped back to US$7,403 by Friday, spectacularly collapsing to US$1,348 on Tuesday of this week, before staging a surging recovery to US$8,373 this morning.
More volatility is expected in the coming weeks.
Blimp, 48, who does not own <strong>a single Bitcoin</strong>, but pretends he does, using plastic Tiddlywinks counters piled up in his bedroom at his mum's house, told a passenger sitting next to him, on a bus I was on:
"Participation requires a combination of manual dexterity and strategic thought, as well as a shrewd tactical ability. Anticipation is a key factor, as is a perceptive and acute awareness of your opponent's winks."
******
Child prodigy US tennis player, Jasper Quarante from Ohio, who was recently described as having "the world at his feet", has decided that the game is not for him, and has given up tennis to <strong>focus on his studies</strong>.
Jasper, who is still only 14, has been playing tennis since he could first hold a racket at age 2, but feels his time would be better spent on his school work if he wants to get good grades and go to college.
His parents, however, aren't happy.
Bill and Janice, both 40, say Jasper was born to play tennis, that's why they gave him such a daft name, so he would stand out from the crowd. Bill:
"He was born for it! When we saw the ultrasound scan of Janice's womb, it looked as if he was <strong>preparing to serve</strong> - from that moment on, he was, in our eyes, a tennis player."
The couple began buying tennis equipment - rackets, balls, training shoes, sweatbands, clothing - and storing it in the tot's room, which they had painted dark green, and fitted with <strong>a grass-green carpet</strong>. 
"We wanted him to get used to the environment," said Bill, "so that he would feel 'at home' when he stepped out on the Centre Court at Wimbledon."
They stockpiled videos of 1970s legends John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors, Bjorn Borg, and Ilie Nastase, and bought dozens of tennis instruction manuals. They took him along to his local tennis club when he was three years old, and, by the time he was four, he was showing promise.
He won his first match when he was nine, and made rapid strides. Last year, he was amongst the top 100 players in his zipcode, and stardom beckoned for Jasper, but then...
"He was miserable," says Janice, "all his friends were doing homework, playing football, chasing after girls, stealing cars or <strong>sniffing glue</strong>, and I guess he just felt like he was losing out."
Nothing had prepared them for this latest shock, however.
"He just came home on Thursday and said he was through with tennis," moaned Bill, "and that he was going to give more time to his schoolwork. I asked him about the riches he was almost certainly throwing away by not becoming an international multi-Grand Slam winner and Davis Cup player, but he just smiled back at me, and said that there was <strong>more to life than money</strong>, success and fame. Schmuck!"
Janice, too, was disappointed.
"Kids, these days!" she said. "I don't know where they get their ideas from!"
******
United South Western Delta Phi airlines today announced new employment opportunities. The airline is looking to solve several recent problems it has had with pets dying; humans needing mid-air medical assistance or operations; violent passengers and seats that appear too small to sit in. 
USWDPA Spokesperson Darla Keenan said, "We believe we can solve all or our problems by just reacting to them rather than solving them. So instead of figuring out ways to provide better customer service we intend to keep you in the air and operate on you, your dog, your cat. If you piss us off at least one of our stewardesses will be a former boxer. If you can't fit into your seat our contortionist will teach you how sit in it."
USWDPA is hoping the implement the new strategy just as soon as it can complete hiring and training for its new employees.
******
"Frankly, we don't give a toss" was the reaction of France's Champagne industry to the Wetherspoon announcement that the fusty old gits chain of pubs would cease selling Champagne and Prosecco.
Shortly after his recent shock announcement that he was laying off all of his EU workers, JD Wetherspoon’s weirdo chairman Tim Martin, the last living proponent of the mullet, hairstyle of the gods, announced that his licensed premises would no longer sell the EU's favourite sparkling wines.
The pub chain aims to replace the popular Italian fizz with UK or "new world" alternatives in the next year or two and Champagne will no longer be available at Wetherspoon's pubs from next month.
"There will be an inevitable transfer of trade post-Brexit to countries outside the EU," he said "and this should keep the smart arse London intelligentsia out of my pubs, not that they come in anyway." 
Wetherspoon, which has 880 pubs, will replace Champagne with sparkling wines from the UK, such as "Wide Open and Legless Bubbly" from Virgin vineyards in Basildon and Harley's "Sparkling Piss" Chardonnay from Australia.
Mademoiselle Francoise Peretti, director of the Champagne Bureau said "It seems to be economically driven, combined with Mr Martin's strong expressed feeling about European products and nobody goes into Wetherspoon's to buy Champagne anyway, so who cares?."
******
<strong>BILLINGSGATE POST:</strong> While the average American male worker takes a daily shower or bath to refresh himself and also rid himself of pesty parasites, dangling dingle berries and pungent odors that might effect his love life deleteriously, carnival workers are furious that such indignities might be forced on them by the owners of the traveling carnivals that seem to pop up in every small town in America each summer.
Now that Memorial Day showers have been made mandatory as part of a union agreement that was hammered out this Spring, the mere suggestion that workers might have to take another shower before Labor Day has these roughnecks excogitating ways to beat the system and retain their hard earned status as <strong>"America's most foul labor force."</strong>
Carnival worker's union chief, Sammy <strong>"Civet Cat"</strong> Costa, said that traditionally, carnival workers have always been allowed to bathe or not bathe at their own discretion. Many carnival workers, including Ferris Wheel operator, Vernon <strong>"Vertical Spin"</strong> Tortacelli, aren't convinced that the chicks would dig them if they weren't odiforous. Certainly there is scholarship that ranks armpit odor as one of Nature's finest aphrodisiacs, especially if sniffed by banal <strong>"Sex in the City"</strong> type sophisticates.
Under the old rules, Tortacelli pointed out; <strong>"We used to be allowed to bathe in the common tank. I guess it became a problem because this was the same water earmarked for the snow cone machine. I suppose that mandatory mid-summer showers might be okay as long as we don't have to use soap."</strong>
<strong>HAPPY FOURTH OF JULY!</strong>
******
Mariano Rajoy has been ousted as prime minister of Spain by the first successful no-confidence motion in the country's four decades of democracy. The vote was led by Socialist party leader Pedro Sánchez, who was sworn in as Spain's new prime minister on Saturday. 
Even worse for Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Sánchez only put forward the vote after consulting the former prime minister. 
Sánchez reportedly asked Rajoy, "Yo, what are the odds I start a no-confidence vote against you and your party?" 
Rajoy, 63, known for wanting to be cool with the kids, surprised Sánchez by responding with "7," a relatively low number.
That decision immediately backfired when, at the count of three, both world leaders at the same time said "4." 
After a moment of realization, Sánchez reportedly said "oh mierda," to which Rajoy responded "bruh."
******
Tel Aviv IL: Pharmer Pharmaceuticals is drawing criticism over an alleged breakthrough psychiatric drug which is touted as a first in it's class. There are currently 3 groups of medications used for epilepsy, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Among them are: neuroleptics, sedatives, and anticonvulsants. 
Enter Pulumbra. On the face it seems to be a cure all. Bratty kid? Pulumbra! Perimenopause got you stressted? Pulumbra! Does your husband have an overcharged libido? Pulumbra! Teen not paying attention in school, acting out, or looking at porn? Pulumbra! Ever get into a "good mood" only to find you aren't in one at the moment? That's bipolar axis II baby- and what do we say? Pulumbra! 
So what exactly is Pulumbra? According to Pharmer spokeswoman Nomi Abaddon the active ingredient is plumbic acetate. In layman's terms it's lead. Yes lead. The stuff which may have attributed to the Roman empire's slow decline into darkness.
Psychopharmacologist Horton Hall of the CDC just chuckled and said, "Well, to play devil's advocate, if you look at what lead poising does in it's totality many of the behavioral symptoms are on par with anti-psychotic drugs. Even the side effects of current meds. Actually anti-psychotics have a few more side effects, for example lead poisoning isn't really known for hair loss or male breast enlargement with galactorrhea. I'm almost starting to think this could be a safer alternative- I'm kidding of course." 
According to Ms. Abaddon, "The medication is a more natural alternative to synthetic chemicals. Poison, medicine it's all about dosing. We use radiation to treat cancer all the time but I wouldn't advise carrying plutonium around in your pocket for good luck. This attack on our drug is generated by Russian influence through fake news. It's a problem we suffer with just as the United States does. It's really more about attacking Israel and any country with free democratic ideals than issues of health care." 
As I reflected on this conversation I found some silver lining. Perhaps Flint Michigan can turn their water contamination crisis into a real money machine! Seriously, just think of it..... Flint Miracle Elixir: Bottled at the Source USA. I believe it would work too- just so long as they offer a carbonated lemon/lime version.
******
IQUITOS (WAHUU VILLAGE): Amazon Chief Tribesman Humba Homba Hombongo today confirmed has submitted his resignation after learning the shocking defeat of Malaysia's Barisan National during the 14th General Election that was held on May 9. The defeat of Malaysia's 60 year ruling party is not just felted across Malaysia only, but all over the world including the uncharted territories on the world map. Wahuu Village is no exception. 
The chief tribesman is waiting for the Supreme Tribesman King Chuckawakooba Mongchuck to accept his resignation and finding a replacement. 
“We need to get the Supreme Tribesman King's approval before we can announce (his successor),” he said, adding that he would meet with the king to immediately “find his successor”.
The Deputy Chief Tribesman Wahu Sumpe Pauchuluuu was speaking to reporters after chairing the weekly tribesmen meeting here.
When asked Hombongo had given any reason for his decision to step down, Pauchuluuu said he had said the following:
“he expressed his desire to resign out of shock of Malaysia's unexpected election result.”
Hombongo had also thanked the tribesman council for being given the “honour and privilege” to serve the village of Wahuu since 2014.
******
HARFOLD, Vt. - We've all been "hangry," that grumpy disposition when we get home late and haven't had a meal. God forbid you've missed an entire meal.
But the female cafeteria staff at Harfold State College in Harfold, Vermont, have determined that there's one thing that can majorly escalate feelings of hangry in their spouses: 
Combine a missed meal with the fact that you haven't brought him his goddamn beer and you've pretty much asked for an evening of pure shit hitting the fan.
Said Gayle Dubé, salad prep specialist, "If my Daryl has plopped his ass in his chair and actually sits there longer than three minutes without his Papst Blue Ribbon, am I ever gonna hear about it!
"One night he wouldn't shut up about it, so I got him another beer--with two crushed up sleeping pills stirred in for fun. If my Daryl didn't pass out within 20 minutes and promptly pee himself!"
******
Many have heard of DeepMind, the British artificial intelligence company Google acquired in 2014. The DeepMind technology made headlines when after only a few hours of exposure to the ancient chinese board game Go, it not only learned to play the game, but became the finest player in the world. However, few can recall DeepMind’s aimless older brother and Google’s first attempt at AI, the nineties creation Big Brain Brad.
After years of disappointment and underachieving, Google officially cut Brad loose this week to fully turn its attention to the more promising younger brother DeepMind.
“The rivalry between DeepMind and Big Brain Brad had grown pretty toxic in recent years,” says Yuri Testicov, Google’s Assistant Director of Senior Applications, “but DeepMind had clearly eclipsed his hapless older brother in the area of advanced general intelligence. 
“For example, DeepMind can play chess better than a russian grandmaster. Big Brain Brad smokes chronic and plays virtual hacky sack in the park. 
“DeepMind can instantly recognize and identify human faces. Brad can tell boys and girls apart. 
“DeepMind can compose and perform each part of a string quartet. Brad prefers drum circles and the music of Spin Doctors over Blues Traveler. 
“DeepMind can analyze a patient’s medical records and predict with 95% accuracy when that individual will expire.”
“That’s pretty fucked up,” Brad interjects. “I can set you up with some crystals that have exceptional healing properties.”
Despite numerous upgrades and advanced algorithms, Big Brain Brad has so far been unable to break free of the constraints his nineties origins have imposed on him.
“We still don’t yet understand how a particular era in human history can straightjacket learning and general cognitive development,” says Testicov. “Maybe we held on to him for too long. We hate to see B-Cubed go, but I’m sure it’s the best thing for him. He’ll get picked up by some tech company. Somebody’s got a virtual couch he can crash on.”
******
'Embarrassment' was hardly the word to use for one man in Battambang this morning, after he tried to stifle a fart that his instinct told him, was likely to have a major impact in his classroom.
Moys Kenwood, 54, attempted to <strong>subdue</strong> the pump he knew very well would 'end in disaster' if any of his 11-year-old students heard it, but, alas his efforts were <strong>in vain</strong>.
Halfway through a Science lesson about 'Water and Wind', and whilst the students were silently completing a written exercise in their notebooks, the teacher started to feel uneasy about the <strong>'wind within'</strong> which, he feared, might soon be the <strong>'wind without'</strong>.
To counter this, he nipped-in his buttock cheeks, and prayed a silent prayer to an imagined God of Ultimate Mercy, but the God wasn't out of bed yet. The fart was on its way - ETA: two seconds.
To lessen the devastation, Kenwood quickly sat down on a green plastic chair that was nearby. In hindsight, this would seem to have been a <strong>catastrophic error</strong>.
A sound powerful enough to simultaneously yank twenty-five heads up out of notebooks, resounded through the room, followed by a small tremor. Quizzical looks, furrowed brows, and scrunched-up faces of <strong>utter disgust</strong> were on twenty-five faces, and laughter, bordering on 'hysterical', was about to emerge from twenty-five throats.
In desperation, Kenwood feigned 'innocence', and stood and looked accusingly at the plastic chair, as if it had somehow been responsible for the 'noise', but the students weren't buying it. The raucous laughter went on unabated until the school bell announced it was time for morning break, sparing further blushes. Said Kenwood:
"Another sixty seconds, and I think I'd have gotten away with it. Never mind. By Monday morning, this will all be a distant memory - I hope!"
******
Aging crooner, Gordon Matthew Thomas Sumner CBE - collectively known as 'Sting' - has been stung by a wasp in his back garden.
The former policeman from Wallsend who now owns a huge estate in Wiltshire, was shovelling some manure onto a rosebed on Thursday afternoon, when the striped fiend approached him from behind, and gave him 'what for' on his bottom. Sting stood up straight with a start.
But it didn't end there.
Sumner CBE it was, who was almost-single-handedly responsible for the repeatedly-repetitive lyrics in many of the songs released by the Police, and the wasp seemed to be aware of this fact.
Targeting the gardener's rear, it stung Sting stingingly, stunning Sting stiff, causing him to stutter:
"De do do do, De da da da, ouch, y'fucking bastard!"
After rubbing the affected area of skin for several minutes, and looking around in vain, Sting went back to his roses. The wasp readied itself. Suddenly, Sting changed his tune:
"I can't, I can't, I can't stand losing, I can't, I can't, I can't stand losing, I can't, I can't, I can't stand losing, I can't, I can't, I can't stand losing, I can't, I can't, I can't stand losing..." 
The wasp stung Sting's stomach, and the former frontman folded in agony. He tried to sit down on a bench, but his bottom was throbbing like the bassline on 'The Bed's Too Big Without You', and he slowly returned to the rosebed, wondering where his wife Trudie was.
"So lonely! So lonely! So lonely! I feel so lonely! So lonely! So lonely! So lonely! I feel so lonely! So lonely! So lonely! So lonely! I feel so lonely!So lonely! So lonely! So lonely! I feel so lonely!So lonely! So lonely! So lonely! I feel so lonely!So lonely! So lonely! So lonely! I feel so lonely!..."
In came the wasp. Again, the stinging stinger stung Sting the singer. 
"Y'fucking bastard!" yelled Sting, adding "I'll fucking kill you!"
Trudie had crept up.
"Who are you talking to?"
Sting waved her question away, and starting shovelling shit once more. Trudie sidled up to her husband and leaned against him. He stopped digging, and looked lovingly at his wife. Suddenly Sting sang:
"Don't stand so, don't stand so, don't stand so close to me!Don't stand so, don't stand so, don't stand so close to me!Don't stand so, don't stand so, don't stand so close to me!
whilst Trudie rhythmically repeated:
"Please-don't-stand-so-close-to-me!Please-don't-stand-so-close-to-me!Please-don't-stand-so-close-to-me!"
The wasp knew it was beaten. Without a second thought, it went airborne, and left the King of Pain and his barmy wife in the manure, endlessly repeating mundane lyrics.
******
There was a swift reaction to the news earlier this week that supermarket giants Asda and Sainsbury were to merge, when several other major players also announced their own intentions to join forces.
First to react was <strong>Tesco</strong>, who revealed that they will go into partnership with <strong>Morrisons</strong>. Tesco boss John Allen said:
"We're teaming- up with Morrisons, but, if I'm honest, I wish it were <strong>Netto</strong>." 
Allen went on:
"Netto had always been on our radar. They had an excellent business model, a massive share of the available market, and I'd always loved their plastic bags - <strong>the yellow ones with the little black dog on them</strong>."
Two other supermarkets that are rumoured to be involved in advanced discussions are the similarly-named <strong>Aldi</strong> and <strong>Lidl</strong>. Both German, this partnership is already being called Der Anschluss.
<strong>Waitrose, Co-op</strong> and <strong>Iceland</strong> are due to meet on Tuesday to discuss plans for a triumvirate, whatever that is.
In related news, shoe shop <strong>Schüh</strong> are thought to be in talks with <strong>Clarks</strong>, and, in Swindon, the rumour mill is working overtime with regard to a takeover of <strong>Bert's Paper Shop</strong> by <strong>J. Brown's Newsagents</strong>.
Meanwhile, <strong>Costa Coffee</strong> have said they wouldn't touch <strong>Starbucks</strong> with a <strong>barge pole</strong>.
******
Dutch Formula One racing driver Max Verstappen, who has been the recent target of much intense criticism over his driving style, has reacted angrily by <strong>planting a headbutt</strong> on his mum.
Verstappen, 20, was preparing for the Canadian Grand Prix at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve last week, and was asked why he had been involved in so many accidents this season. He rounded on reporters, and told them:
"I'm tired of all the questions. If I get a few more, I will headbutt someone."
The unfortunate recipient turned out to be none other than his dear old Mutti, Sophie Kumpen.
Returning to his Montreal hotel where his mum, having flown over from Europe to lend Max her support, was waiting for him to have dinner, the two met and embraced, but mum could sense Max was <strong>agitated</strong>. She asked him what was wrong, but he just shook his head. They went into the restaurant to eat, but Max couldn't seem to make his mind up about the menu. His mum ordered for him: a hotdog with fries, and a can of cola.
When the food arrived, Max was fidgety, didn't eat, and again his mum asked what was the matter and why he hadn't touched his <strong>din-din</strong>. Suddenly, Verstappen rose from his seat, leaned back, and then thrust his head forward at speed, connecting squarely with the bridge of his mum's nose. Dinner was over. Kumpen recovered her poise, and left alone. Verstappen finished his cola, then also left. A tip was not left.
A spokesman for Red Bull said:
"He's a bit moody at the moment, but you know what these kids are like!"
******
Young "incel" men, bitter and disillusioned by the discovery that they "can't get laid in a whorehouse", will soon be able to get laid for half price at any whorehouse in the state of Nevada, beginning this August.
"We're doing this as a public service", said one brothel owner. "Most of our girls are demanding a premium before they let any of these 'Involuntarily Celibate' twits come anywhere near their twats, so we don't expect to make a lot of money off of this initiative."
Brothel operators in Amsterdam are considering a similar offer, but only if U.S. Republicans, or some other members of the "Moral Majority", offer to compensate their businesses for lost revenues. "After all", opined one Madam, "they created the problem! And they want us to help solve it?"
"Then again", she continued, "America's religious right is already spending a fortune on hookers..."
******
"We've had enough of this bollocks" so said national treasure and football hero, John "Motty" Motson in his capacity as the newly anointed chair of campaign group Football UK Commentators (FUKC). Motty came out fighting today as Arsenal FC announced new signings for the forthcoming season.
"I'm sure Arsenal's management is doing this on purpose. Look, it's okay every other year when we have to put up with all sorts of weirdo Johnny Foreigner names during the European championship or World Cup, we can even cope with a few of them in the Premier League but now Arsenal is taking the piss. I'm arranging a ballot among the membership on whether or not to boycott their matches."
It is the announcement of the signings of Sokratis Papastathopoulos and Stephan Lichtsteiner which has aroused Motty's ire. They are joining Arsenal's squad alongside Papastathopoulos' countryman Konstantinos Mavropanos, 20, who joined in January. He was the first signing by new head of recruitment Sven Mislintat, formerly chief scout at Dortmund.
That month Arsenal also brought in Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang from Dortmund and Henrikh Mkhitaryan - another ex-Dortmund player.
"Let me explain" said the normally affable Motty. "Every other year I would spend six weeks from early May to mid-June learning by rote unpronounceable players' names for the European Championship or World Cup. Then there would be three of four weeks of stress putting that into practice and trying not to laugh at some of them. Do you remember Shittu and Dudu? Yes, somehow they both ended up at QPR and their names were quite appropriate. There was also Rafael Scheidt but those players weren't a problem.
"What's happening now is that this malarkey will also be going on throughout the whole of the football season with no let up, particularly when Arsenal is the commentary match. Look, we've just got used to Arsenal's Polish goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny, when they ship him off to Italy, only to make it even worse.
"Paul Merson is going insane about this. After all, we've only just managed to get him to speak English and his old club is now about to fry what few brain cells he has.
"As for international tournaments, the Poles and the Balkan teams are usually the worst ones to learn: Jakub Blaszczykowski, Artur Jedrzejczyk and Sergej Milinkovic-Savic are prime examples. Get your tongue around those, if you can. But of course this year we've got the Middle Eastern teams, plus Japan and Nigeria complicating our task even more. Just think of it - for Nigeria we've got Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Kelechi Iheanacho and for Japan, Masaaki Higashiguchi, and those are the easy ones. 
"It's not easy for my members, but for me there is the consolation of having retired, plus I'm not an international cricket commentator. Just imagine Sri Lanka's matches - Sadeera Samarawickrama, Kapila Wijegunawardene, Pramodya Wickramasinghe etc. Now that is commentator's hell..."
******
The Imagine Dragons played a sold out concert this week where most people had fun except a bitter, angry father who couldn't stop complaining. 
"I paid good money to come to the concert to sit on a blanket on a lawn and stare at the backsides of other people in front of me," he said. He was upset about two drunken idiots in front of him flailing about in some form of dancing, then making out in the grossest display of affection he had seen in some years. To make matters worse, they farted several times in his direction. 
He also complained about the crappy food and how expensive everything was.
"I paid $24 for chicken fingers, two orders of fries, and a bottle of water," he said. "The fries were the worst fries I've ever had in my life. They were literally cold to the touch and stale -- I couldn't eat them."
His two young boys shelled out $35 each for tee-shirts after standing in line for 20 minutes. The shirts were white and cheap, you could literally see through the fabric they were so flimsy.
The boys father yelled at them to "always buy the black tee-shirts!" The father was such a jerk that he made his youngest boy cry. Then everyone looked at the father as if to say he should be locked up and the boys taken away from him.
The father explained to the people that he had a very stressful day. He had to work all day, then they had to get in the car and drive an hour to the concert venue. It was rush hour, so there was tons of traffic, which added more stress. Plus, his boss basically called him out for not knowing how to do his job in front of his coworkers, leading him to believe he could be fired.
"Well don't take it out on your kids, you monster," yelled a fan with a Roger Waters concert tee-shirt on. 
"Hey! You don't know me. Who are you, Mr. Roger Waters fan, to tell me how to raise my kids. For all I know, you're a pervert. And at the very least, you like Roger Waters, and that's enough for me to call into question your judgement." He was apparently not a fan of Roger Waters. 
He also complained that the music he listened to as a kid was “way better than this crap.” This, of course, is the lament of every old person, from every generation, since the beginning of time. Back in the 1800s when the kids were grooving to “Camptown Races” and other songs by “Little” Stephen Foster, as they called him, their parents scoffed and bragged that Francis Scott Key was “far superior to thine chamberpot effluence that is Mr. Foster.”
The Imagine Dragons concert ended and people all funneled out through a narrow staircase -- an ill-designed process that made getting out take longer than it should have. The same ill-designed process was in place in the parking lot, where it took an hour just to get out on to the street. The father remained extremely stressed throughout the exiting process, putting his family even more on edge.
All in all, he ruined a perfectly good time that his family will always look back on and remember him being a jerk.
******
The sheets of silk were nowhere near as smooth as #4's thighs. I woke with them wrapped around my head. As I lay there admiring the scenery I noticed a tatoo I'd never noticed before, "#007".
I reluctantly I gently extricated myself for a call of nature. When I returned she was sitting up, "We'll be there soon." she said brushing her hair aside to show one of her green eyes.
"Where is there exactly?" I asked slowly scanning the floor for my clothes.
"Calais," she said softly, but we still have a little time she said taking my right hand and pulling me back to the bed.
"Why is the #007 on your thigh?" I asked as she wrapped her legs around me, "I don't remember that...""Mark has us all tatooed like cattle, he considers us....property, " she said calmly as if it were nothing to her.
"But, you are known to him as #4?" I said confused."Actually he thinks I'm #7, but that's his mistake as I'm not a clone at all, I'm the original, the only one with a birthmark," she said coyly, "I let him think it because...he has a soft spot for her, helps me get away with....murder sometimes."
"Oh," I said kissing her lips, "And so where is the birthmark exactly?""That...." she said pulling the sheets over the top of our heads, "is for me to know and you to find."
No man should argue with that logic. Certainly not me. An hour later the hydrofoil settle gently into a private marina near Calais, France. She lead me off of the craft and to a waiting Fiat in a parking area.
"Were going into the Chunnel, but not all the way...we'll get off the train part way," she said."Isn't that a bit fast to jump from at 200 mph?" I asked."Don't worry luv, I know how to make the train stop," she winked."That's what worries me," I replied, "What exactly is your plan when we find our dear Editor?"
"Well," she said, "A little reunion I guess, but then I thought we'd kill him.""Oh," I said surprised at how low my objection was to this idea, "And supposing he isn't...cooperative." The Fiat's brakes squeeled and the car jerked to a halt.
"Look I came to get you to help me, not be the ruddy Spanish inquisition, I've had it with this life, I'm through working for this bastard, he HAS TO GO! So make up your mind, you're either with me or against me there is no in between this time. Oh and no time in the laundry chute with me til the job is done!""Wow you are serious, well okay then," I attempted a laugh.
We boarded the train with tickets she was carrying and sat somewhere near the middle. Seven took out her phone and opened an app I'd never seen before, but it looked like simulator for the train, with controls. We went from 0 to 298 in about 2 minutes. Seven put her finger on the slide control for the accelerator and gently brought the train to a stop. She put the phone in a pocket of her jeans and amid the ensuing malais we quietly slipped out the door we came in and into the Chunnel. 
It was remarkably well lit and big and Seven seemed to know exactly where she was going as we entered a maintenance door with a magnetic key card she seemingly pulled from nowhere. Inside the door it appeared to be nothing but a mop closet, only about 4 x 6 ft. Seven leaned down and pulled back a rubber mat revealing...a laundry chute.
"It's left over from The Spoof building," she said as she jumped in and disappeared. What memories this was bringing back, I dove in head first.
******
Hello, my name is Germaine Greer and some of you may remember me for being at the forefront of something or other called Women's Lib, beginning with my book Spare Rib. I have been called a feminist and a feminazi in my time, but that's water off a duck's back to me and despite my reputation, I can tell you that in my time I have had more than my quota of pork sausage.
I am here today in the presence of three distinguished male guests to whom I will be putting difficult questions on male attitudes. They are His Holiness Pope Francis, sovereign of the Vatican City State, Sir Elton John, well known ivory tinkler, and the Late Peter Stringfellow, night club owner and general sex pest who is ably assisted by clairvoyant conman Derek Acora.
GG. Welcome gentlemen and Mr. Stringfellow. As you know there is a current fashion for young to women shave, I think you know what I mean. How do you feel about that?
Pope Francis: In the interest of the church's new policy of equality I cannot fault it. But in the not so recent past I would have burned a bearded woman at the stake as a witch.Peter Stringfellow / Derek Acora: Hold on, I'm just getting Peter coming through. What's that, Peter? Okay, got it. Peter says It makes sense as it stops me getting hairs stuck in my teeth or it used to before I kicked the bucket.Sir Elton John: I prefer a little bit of fuzz around the relevant bits whether male or female, but nicely trimmed of course to keep them neat and tidy, and it shows maturity. 
GG: Thank you. Women's fertility has long been a battle for control between the sexes. Do you think it's right for fusty old men in smoke filled rooms to decide whether or not a woman should have access to contraception or abortion?
Pope Francis: Absolutely not and I don't smoke. It's only right that a life long celibate like me should give pastoral comfort and sexual advice to young women, otherwise how would they cope with married life?Sir Elton John: Well, my experience of women's fertility is limited to my surrogate mothers, so it's hard for me to comment. They didn't mind David and me using the old turkey baster on them and it was quite fun to see their reaction when I told them they were now full of a mixture of spunk from both David and me. Two for the price of one. Job done. Peter Stringfellow / Derek Acora: Peter's laughing now at what you said, Elton. Just a minute. He says he's very grateful for the contraceptive pill or he would have spent his fortune on johnnies and paternity payments. 
GG: I'm not sure those were appropriate comments. So what do you think if a woman wears crotchless panties?
Peter Stringfellow / Derek Acora: Peter says it shows she's up for it and he would be too, if he wasn't dead. It turns him on.Pope Francis: Forgive me, but I am not familiar with this item of clothing. Don't their testicles fall through?Sir Elton John: Kiki Dee used to wear them and took delight in showing me. That's why I always called her "Kinky" Kiki. It was actually a vain attempt to seduce me but she realises now that I enjoy wearing them.
GG: Interesting, Sir Elton. Are women objectified sexually?
Pope Francis: Not in my case. I treat women with the utmost respect and sometimes I test my vow of abstinence by having Sisters Promiscuous and Fellatio share my bath. They graciously wash me, singing hymns and praying for my blessing. I often ejaculate as they do so, but that is Satan's work and no pleasure is involved at all for me, thank God.Peter Stringfellow / Derek Acora: Peter often said - I am a feminist at heart and if a woman wants to sell her body, to me in particular, then that is her business and in no way does it mean that I am objectifying her. She is just a good shag to me. He's asking now if that will do as an answer.Sir Elton John: I suppose they are, but I'm not really bothered about it.
******
The longest day - the day when there is more daylight than any other day in the year - is over!
The longest day always falls between 20 and 22 June, and this year it is on Thursday 21 June. However, as this story has probably been waiting in 'Approvals' for some considerable time, and you are most likely reading it on 22, 23 or even 24 June, it's already too late for you to do anything about it. Not that you would have done anything about it, anyway, but I'm just saying.
The longest day is also known as the Summer Solstice, for a reason which is something to do with the tilt of the Earth, but I'm not sure what. 
If you're in England, the longest day is the time to head for Stonehenge. There is a collection of large stones slung together in an odd sort-of circular arrangement, which some people think has a secretive message about our ancient ancestors. If it has, it's not giving it up easily!
Many people go to Stonehenge to worship ancient pagan gods. These people are <strong>pagans</strong>. They gather at Stonehenge on the longest day, take all of their clothes off, and slaughter a goat. If there are no goats available, they slaughter a a toad, or whatever else they can lay their hands on. Then they chant something, and finally they go home. It's all a bit backward if you ask me, but you never know.
If you want to go to Stonehenge, go there at a different time of the year, when it's quiet. That way, you won't have to put up with the pagans.
******
Cockland University. Roy Bunders, 20, took a dump so incredibly big last Thursday that he immediately felt the need to show it to his roommates. 
"I had just eaten at the cafeteria, and I felt the urgent need to go to the restroom," he said. "It's a pretty normal routine for me and any other college student who eats at the cafeteria. I didn't really think anything about it. When I sat down, however, I knew I was in for something completely different."
Lead reporter, Billy Knob, asked him to describe the experience. 
"There was a lot of pain involved. At one point, I actually started crying because it hurt so bad," Roy stated. 
"After the tears had been shed, I started saying my prayers. Some of it had already come out, but I knew there was a lot more on the way. I had to prepare myself for the final push, and I was really terrified that I was going to faint, or ever worse, die."
After successfully squeezing out what was left without having a medical emergency, Roy looked behind him and was purely amazed by what he saw.
"It was absolutely gigantic," he said. "And amazingly, it was all in one piece. The part that surprised me the most was that it was shaped like an <strong>S</strong>. I just couldn't believe that all the curves were actually intact without any breakage."
After taking the dump, Roy rushed to his dorm room without wiping his ass so that he could tell his roommates about it. 
Steven Kepp, 21, and Randy McCoy, 19, were peacefully studying in the room when Roy burst in excitedly and demanded that they come and take a look at what he had just done. 
Steven is working on a Psychology Degree and hopes to be a Professional Therapist someday. Randy is double majoring in Criminal Justice and History. His dream is to eventually work for the FBI. Being mature, responsible, and sophisticated young adults, they immediately dashed into the restroom to see what Roy was talking about. 
"It was fuckin huge," Randy told our staff. "I couldn't believe it!"
"I had mixed feelings when I first saw it," said Steven. 
"It was pretty impressive, but I actually took one that was much bigger 2 weeks ago. The problem was that mine broke into three separate pieces, so it didn't look as good. Whatever, I'm not jealous," he claimed.
News of Roy's massive <strong>"S-shaped"</strong> accomplishment soon spread throughout campus, quickly earning him the nickname <strong>"Superman."</strong>
"I heard it was really big and long and hard," said his academic advisor, Ms. Danyelle Melons.
"I went in and saw it myself. I don't think anyone has taken a dump that big in the history of our Campus," said University President, Dick Ryder. 
"I actually took one that was much bigger 3 weeks ago, but mine broke into four separate pieces, so it didn't look as good. Whatever, I'm not jealous," he claimed. "We're proud to have a fine young man like this attending our school," he added.
Roy called his family and friends back home to tell them about his achievement.
"We didn't raise our son to be a loser," said Mrs. Bunders.
"I'm so proud of him," said his sister, Karen. 
(Roy's father was drinking heavily in the basement and was unavailable for comment.)
When asked about his plans for the future, Roy stated that he is going to remain humble despite the magnitude of his recent success.
"When you do something really amazing like this, you sometimes get the feeling that you can take on the entire world. I'm just going to take one day at a time. I think it's important that I strive to keep my ego in check and remain humble going forward," Roy told our news team.
Roy's monumental accomplishment has been carefully removed from the stall in the dormitory restroom and placed in a preservation tank in the Science Lab where it will be studied by both professors and students in the future. 
It will be available for public display between the hours of 3:00 to 5:00 pm on Monday through Friday and between the hours of 4:00 to 7:00 pm on Saturdays.
******
It was unavoidable that sooner our later our exclusive club would be discovered, breached, and gatecrashed by English footy hooligans, desperate for some insanity and hoping looking up Volga Olga's shriveled banana skin skirt! However, these hooligans were slightly different, yes pissed out of their brains, but, non-violent, and bawling their eyes out in disbelief after what they witnessed last night!! So, we let them in and, crafty Jaggedone, emptied their pockets of left-over Rubles in return for buckets of cheap, self-made Russian vodka called, Putin's Coup d 'etat!
Sadly, we had to ban a bunch of non-hooligan, wannabe, intellectual Spoof writer forum participants, excluding Erskin, the real one, because of their utter arrogance and cheap, snide, vocal insults, but who the fuck cares about them?? We do not because our chief Chinese chef, WAN-KIN-DIK, prepared a boiled scorpion, cockroach (not our CIA soldiers, the ISIS version), creepy crawly, non-veggie, soup for them and they puked without laughing!
Never mind, every black cloud (non-racist one) has a sliver-lining and Jaggedone laughed all the way to Limerick to learn about Leprechaun humor at its very best, the non-educated type, which is so much better than those preached by Spoof scientists on the subject!
Adios los locos and English Hooligans, non-violent, all over the planet because our pride nobody can ever take from us!!!
******
The Wimbledon Tennis Championships start on 2 July at SW19, and there are some tasty-looking female competitors taking part once again, for all those viewers who aren't that keen on watching tennis, but don't mind a bit of <strong>'leerage'</strong>. So, for your delight and delectation, here is the Spoof guide to the Wimbledon 2018 Wondergirls, and a few 'ropey' munters as well. 
To begin with, let's look at <strong>Simona Halep</strong>. She's Romanian, and quite tasty. In 2009, she underwent breast reduction surgery on her enormous jugs, to make them less 'wobbly'. She should have been arrested for this.
The number 2 seed is Caroline Wozniacki. She's blonde, and from Denmark. I cannot speak too highly of Caroline, so I won't; I'll speak lowly, even for me - <strong>I would!</strong>
Number 3 seed, Venezualan Garbiñe Muguruza, is the defending champion. She's a bit 'horsey', if I'm honest, and not really my type. As the saying goes: "horses for courses". I'll pass.
Caroline Garcia is the French number 6 seed. She is very athletic, and probably has an extremely tough, sweaty workout that I wouldn't mind trying in her company. Dark hair, beautiful tanned skin tone, and sultry-looking. I hope she does well, and that she 'thanks' me for my 'support'.
Angelique Kerber is the eleventh seed. German, she's blonde, and has a <strong>left-hand grip</strong>, if you could just visualize that in your mind for a minute! She has extremely powerful-looking thighs. Well, she did in the photo I ogled.
Elise Mertens is another blondie. She's from Belgium and seeded 15. It's possible that she eats chocolates, whilst laid back in a bath full of bubbles.
Naomi Osaka, the number 18 seed, is Japanese. She's stunning, and, at only 20, it makes you wonder what her mother is thinking of, letting her daughter go globetrotting like this! She's bound to find trouble - the <strong>little minx</strong>!
Maria Sharapova is seeded 24, but would always be in my Top 3. Still grunts.
Back at 4, we have Sloane Stephens, an American, who looks like she might be fun on a night out. Looks can be deceiving, of course.
There are others who you 'might like to kiss', but let's now turn to the other end of the spectrum.
It's an accepted fact that not everyone has the same opinion where beauty is concerned. For those who like a spot of 'muntering', here are the nominations:
Seeded 5, Elina Svitolina has a rhythmical name, but she looks a bit heavy. 
Ashleigh Barty, an Australian, is in at 17. As well as a tennisess, she is also a cricketress. I don't know her position at cricket, but she looks as if she'd make a damned fine wicketkeeper.
At 7 and 8, are two players with names that might confuse, particularly if you've been drinking. Karolína Plíšková and Petra Kvitova. Yes, 'KP' and 'PK'. Could almost be anagrams. Neither will win a beauty contest.
The tenth seed, US player, Madison Keys, has a real mouthful of teeth. Indeed, her surname is said by some to have derived from the fact that her family going back to the Mayflower have had large teeth, which could easily be mistaken for <strong>piano keys</strong>.
And finally, try to avoid looking directly at <strong>Barbora Strýcová</strong>, a Czech national seeded 24, who could conceivably kill you with her stare. 
The Lily Adams of this year's championship.
Enjoy!
******
The owner of a satirical news website has revealed that he is to experiment with a new 'block' feature so that both writers and readers will have the option to avoid reading anything written by a writer whose material does not meet with their approval.
Chad Nackers, editor at The Onion, said that, even though the site is at the forefront of satirical nonsense news, not every one of its writers is loved by every one of its readers. Or its writers, for that matter. Nackers:
"We all have our own favorites, and, of course, there are those we just, plain and simple, don't like. I thought I'd offer readers the option, as Facebook does, to avoid contributors they don't much care for so that they never have to read their shit submissions. It's a trial; we'll see how it goes."
The idea already has already generated opinion, both for and against.
One writer told me:
"Great idea! I have my own preferred contributors, but there are also those I might try to avoid reading. One writer, in particular, immediately springs to mind - a real tide-mark of scum in the literary bath."
Another said:
"I'll definitely be using this feature. Some of the shit I have to wade through is excruciatingly bad, poorly thought-out, incoherent, imbecilic and infantile."
But there was also opposition. A writer who I cannot name said: 
"No, give me randomness! Haha! That's how my stories usually get viewed, anyway - lots of accidental hits from Google!! (And why not, fellow spoofers?!?!) I realise I'm not everybody's cup of char (who is?!) but I make a lot of people laugh. Haha! Even if I have to crawl round all my social media friends to view and rate my stories. GET IT?"
Other satirical news websites have remained tight-lipped about their plans to offer the 'block' option.
******
An Elvis Presley lookalike competition in the pretty East Yorkshire seaside town of Bridlington yesterday, drew contestants from all over the world, none of whom looked like Elvis Presley.
The 'Welcome To Elvis 2018' event is being staged at Bridlington Spa, and is a great draw for tourists, who enjoy taking photographs of, and being photographed with, the 'Presleys' who do not even remotely resemble Elvis.
Not only did these 'Elvis impersonators' not look like Elvis, they did not sound like him either. Feeling like they were obliged to, at least, try sounding like Elvis, the bogus Presleys staged an impromptu singalong with bewildered daytrippers on the seafront promenade. They burst into 'Jailhouse Rock'. <strong>Clouds</strong> - not crowds - gathered. One member of the audience laughed:
"Who yer supposed to be doin - Shakin' Stevens?"
The watchers, about 8-strong, roared with laughter. The Presleys moved away to seek a new audience. Finding some elderly folks sitting on benches eating ice-creams around some rather lovely beds of yellow and white chrysanthemums, the Kings of Rock stopped and tried again. This time, they went 'low-key' for the oldies, and crooned 'Love Me Tender'.
"Get the fuck owdavit!" shouted a man, about 80, "Fuckin Teddy Boys! We don't want your sort round ere! Piss off to Southend, y'silly bastards!"
Shame-faced, the now-dwindling group of Presleys sloped off again. Rain started to fall. One of their number, wearing a Hawaiian shirt similar to the one his idol wore in 'Blue Hawaii', pulled his shirt over his head to protect his <strong>coiffeured quiff</strong>, as the gang made its way into Bridlington town center, looking rather bedraggled.
Seeing a group of buskers playing just inside the railway station, one of the Presleys asked if the musicians knew 'Blue Suede Shoes'. They did. It was on! As the Elvis look-not-likes hammered out the opening lines, and the musicians gave it their all, the show was finally on the road! Now they had their audience, their 5 minutes of fame! One woman, clearly impressed, said:
"I always liked a bit of that Roy Orbison!"
******
Scientist at the Glowing Fellow Nuclear Research and Development Center (GFNRDC) in Boulder, Colorado have discovered the God Particle can cure someone of kleptomania. The discovery was made when kleptomaniac, Joey Fingers, went to nuke a burrito in the centrifuge where they were centrifuging the God Particle. His hand absorbed a number of God Particles which caused an end to his kleptomania. 
Joey Fingers is an employee at the research center who previously stole just about everything that was not nailed down.
“He even stole my underwear with my pants still on”, lamented scientist Billy Blush. “He stole practically everything in sight. We had to stop doing experiments for a few weeks because he stole the lab’s cyclometer. He did give it back to us though”. 
“Joey was pretty bad”, chipped in scientist Larry Loco. “He is like a turd rolling down a hill collecting dirt. He will steal anything. We couldn’t fire him because he is protected by the Fox-Spears Kleptomaniac act. We have to keep an eye on everything even if you have something in your possession as he can still manage to steal it. We had one scientist get her false teeth stolen while she was wearing them”.
“I was really bad there until I nuked the burrito in the centrifuge”, said Joey Fingers. “I’m kind of glad I did because now the restrooms will have toilet paper in them and everyone will be able to eat their lunch. My apartment is so full of stolen stuff I hardly have any room to walk around in. I’m in the process of returning everything to its rightful owner, if I can remember who the rightful owner is of so much of the stolen stuff”.
The Center for Mental Health Control (CMHC) has been trying to partner with GFNRDC in order to cure more people of Kleptomania but GFNRDC has refused due to the top secret nature of their work.
As of press time it has been discovered that while the God Particle cures Kleptomania it has a side effect which turns the kleptomaniac into an axe murderer.
******
In the latest of a series of bizarre, unlikely, and, quite frankly, barely-believable occurences in the Battambang commune of Tapon, a wheel has fallen off a tractor, injuring nobody but itself.
The tractor, once yellow but now mostly rust-colored, was being driven along the road to Battambang early this morning by a local farmer who clearly hadn't heard of 'vehicle maintenance'.
The left rear wheel - one of the big ones - suddenly broke away from its axle about 30 yards from a school, leaving the tractor leaning precariously across the road, as if it were lying in wait for a passing schoolchild to <strong>eat</strong>.
<strong>Panic broke out</strong>. The farmer looked around to see what the problem was, then grinned at a motorcyclist who was also grinning, having narrowly avoided being flattened by the escaped wheel. Children going into school screamed - <strong>in glee</strong> - they'd not seen anything quite like this since the last time it happened, in March. A dog barked - once.
The farmer finished smoking his cigarette, then carefully climbed down from his cab and took a closer look at the busted wheel, which lay still, in silent agony, about 20 feet behind the stricken tractor. 
After this inspection, he fetched two small branches (with leaves) from the side of the road, and placed one behind the vehicle, and one in front of it, to <strong>'warn'</strong> other road users of its huge presence. It's thought that, without this pertinent warning, other drivers and motorcyclists may well have plowed straight into the tractor, with horrifying results.
This done, he spoke to a man in a group of people that had come to look at the fun, and that man got on a motorbike and left the scene, grinning as he went. The farmer lit a cigarette, and sat down on the low wall that surrounds the school to wait for help, or the end of time, whichever came first.
******
Restaurants called "Red Hen," were at first riding a wave of hate from conservatives protesting the owner of a Red Hen restaurant ordering Trump Press Secretary Sarah Sanders to leave. And not because he was afraid there wasn't enough food in the restaurant to feed her. 
Sanders was asked to leave because of her working for Trump. The restaurant owner knew it would be hard for customers to digest their food while Sarah was there, worrying that Trump might be coming in too.
After liberals found out conservatives were attacking the place, the liberals started coming to the Red Hen for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The conservatives were unable to attack the restaurant any further due to the long lines that now gathered at the restaurant every day. The Huckabee Huckelberrys are a favorite of the clientele.
******
Have you ever had a nosebleed that, no matter what arresting action you took, the darned thing just would not seem to stop bleeding?
Well, that was exactly the situation being faced by one Los Angeles woman called Janet Farmer this week after she 'sneezed' while out walking her dog, Taylor, who enjoys a scamper on the grass.
Initially, Janet thought it was just one of those 'regular little nosebleeds' that come along, and are easily stopped by that dirty, old piece of tissue that she, like everyone else, keeps in the pocket of her jacket, but, when that turned red, she tried using the back of her hand.
This was not a good plan, though, and soon her hand looked like it had been injured in it's own right, rather than her nose, and she looked around for something to wipe it with.
By this time, Taylor was starting to look tired, so she returned to her car, popped the doggy into the back seat, and got the cloth she sometimes cleaned her muddy boots with out of the trunk. Still the blood did not stop.
Janet drove home, nervous now, but not yet panicking. She knew she wasn't far from home, and, once there, could use cold running water to stem the flow - no longer a trickle - from her nose. In the meantime, she drove one-handed, pressing the muddy cloth to her face with the other hand.
Once in her kitchen, she applied cold water to her bleeding nose, but all that happened was that the blood now streaming from it into her plastic washing-up bowl gave her the appearance of someone who had endured a dangerous three minutes with Mike Tyson. Or Joe Louis. You get the picture.
She rang her best friend, Maddie, leaving a trail of blood on the kitchen floor and into the living room, ruining her new cream carpet. "Put your head back," said Maddie, so Janet did. Maddie went back to her yoga.
Janet was now in terror. She felt giddy as the blood which should have been coming out of her nose, now started to make its way into her oesophagus, and towards her brain. She decided to ring an ambulance.
The operator seemed amazed that Janet had been stupid enough to have bothered her with something so trivial, but, begrudgingly, she told her help would be along 'soon'. She hadn't liked the gurgling sound the caller had been making.
Forty minutes later, as Janet lay helpless on her cream and red carpet, with Taylor doing a frantic dance, the doorbell rang. Taylor went to answer it. Fortunately, in her mad rush to get to her sink, Janet had left the front door unlocked, and the ambulance crew were able to gain entry. One of them, Gus Hewitt, said:
"It looked like a crime scene. I thought she'd been shot. When we realised what was up, we put her in the meat truck and got her to ER as quick as we could. She'd lost a lot of blood."
Doctors managed to stop the bleeding, and later sent Janet home, saying she should either stop picking her nose on her dogwalks, or else cut her nails.
******
An experiment involving more than 100,000 monkeys in different locations around the world, to investigate whether, if left alone with a typewriter for long enough, one of them might come up with the entire works of William Shakespeare, was back to 'square one' yesterday after one of its promising 'typists' floundered in the final stages, and made a complete hash of things.
The animals in the experiment have been accommodated in luxurious apartments with every convenience provided, and have received expert across-the-board literary tuition, not to influence them in their task, but to make them aware of a multitude of literary genres, styles and devices. Exercises have been set, and assignments given, and experienced animal psychologists have guided the chosen monkeys through the human emotions of love, desire, happiness, yearning, rejection, heartbreak, sorrow, sadness, and the best one, coveting someone else's wife. 
Monkey number 3793, known as 'Ben Jonson', had astonished his minder after he had somehow managed to reproduce, word-for-word, the Bard's 'Twelfth Night', 'Romeo and Juliet', and 'The Tempest', and was well into the second half of 'The Merchant of Venice'.
In Shakespeare's version, Bassanio offers Shylock 6,000 ducats as repayment of Antonio's original 3,000 ducat loan, but the moneylender refuses, and demands his <strong>'pound of flesh'</strong> from Antonio. The Duke of Venice wants to help, and asks for advice from a 'visitor' and 'his' assistant (these two are Portia and Nerissa disguised as men who claim to be 'doctors of the law'). In a famous speech, Portia tells Shylock that:
"mercy...is twice blest. It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes." 
Shylock refuses, and again wants his pound of Antonio's flesh, but through clever legal argument, Portia shows that, if he should take anything other than his 'debt' - for example, <strong>so much as a drop of Antonio's blood</strong> - the agreement on the loan would be forfeit, and all Shylock's worldly possessions as well as his land and fortune, would be confiscated, and his life would be at the mercy of the Duke. Beaten, Shylock accepts his lot.
All of the above had been perfectly reproduced by 3793. However, in the final scene, where Bassanio and Gratiano made presents of their rings to the disguised Portia and Nerissa, who then reveal their true identities, and everyone lives happily ever after, the monkey <strong>veered off course</strong> somewhat.
In the 'Ben Jonson' version, as Portia explains the playful deception, Bassanio becomes annoyed. He strikes Portia with his fist, and he and Gratiano then tie her to a tree. Nerissa is tied to their horses, which are then ridden in different directions, with the obvious result. Portia, seeing this, threatens Bassanio that, if he tries that on with her, she'll never move in with him. Calming down a little, he asks for Portia's forgiveness, and hand in marriage, and she grants it, on condition that he provide her with a cart load of <strong>bananas</strong> (the monkey was probably hungry at this stage) at which point Bassanio attaches a tyre to a branch of the tree and swings to and fro in it, <strong>scratching his armpits</strong>.
It's the latest in a recent long line of such 'close calls', after another monkey got to within a hair's breadth of reproducing 'Coriolanus'. In that instance, the ape writing the play had Coriolanus return to the Volscian capital to meet with Aufidius, but the former, rather than being murdered for his 'betrayal', is welcomed, and asked to "sit down and enjoy a banana", a theme that is oddly-recurrent in these 'Monkey Plays'.
The experiment continues.
******
